Thousands of Mini LEDs are precisely controlled by XR Backlight Master Drive™ to deliver captivating brightness and
authentic contrast.
Access billions of accurate real-world colors with XR Triluminos Pro™.
XR Processor™ with AI technology intelligently enhances every scene in real-time boosting color, contrast, and clarity.
AI Super Resolution, powered by AI, enhances studio quality by restoring lost textures and improves low-quality content by
reducing noise and enhancing details.
Get access to all your favorite streaming apps in one place with Google TV™. With Google Assistant™, simply use your
voice to search and ask questions.1
Easily stream to your TV with support for Apple AirPlay® 2 and Google Cast™.9,10
Movies are included with access to the largest IMAX
® Enhanced collection in the SONY PICTURES CORE app.2,3
See picture quality just as the creator’s intended with studio calibrated picture modes specially designed for Netflix, Prime
Video, and SONY PICTURES CORE.4,5
Get a truly cinematic viewing experience with support for Dolby Vision® and Atmos®, IMAX
® Enhanced, and DTS:X®.3,6
Upscale all your HD and digital content and bring back lost detail with XR Clear Image™ and AI technology.7
See blur-free picture quality in fast-moving sports and action-packed movies powered by XR Motion Clarity™.
With Acoustic Multi-Audio™, sound positioning tweeters produce wider, elevated sound that matches the picture you see.
Hear people’s voices clearly, even in loud action scenes, with Voice Zoom 3™ powered by AI technology.17
Pair your BRAVIA TV with compatible BRAVIA Theater soundbars to unlock Acoustic Center Sync for elevated audio and
enhanced dialogue.11
Use BRAVIA Connect app to easily control your BRAVIA TV from your smartphone and change volume, picture settings,
and discover useful features.12
Take your PS5® gaming to the next level with BRAVIA exclusive features – Auto HDR Tone Mapping and Auto Genre
Picture Mode – that optimizes picture quality for gaming and streaming.13
Game Menu puts all your gaming picture settings and exclusive assist features in one place.
Get the advantage in high-performance gaming with HDMI 2.1 features 4K/120, VRR, ALLM and SBTM.14
Premium two-way narrow stand – low-profile position or raised to accommodate a soundbar.15
BRAVIA Cam (sold separately) automatically optimizes picture and sound according to your room environment, and you can
enjoy video chat on a bigger screen.16
Eco Dashboard keeps all your energy efficiency settings in one place.
K85XR50
BRAVIA 5 85” Class Mini LED 4K HDR Google TV (2025)
Step up to Mini LED brightness and contrast, and the big screen experience you’ve always dreamed of. A
crystal-clear picture, upscaled with AI technology, and sizes ranging up to a massive 98 inches, will make
movie nights unforgettable. Unique gaming features and support for HDMI 2.1 unlock the full potential of
your favorite games.
Bullets
Features
Cinema is coming home
Feel the emotion and excitement of the movies with BRAVIA. Our decades of professional filmmaking experience allow us to
faithfully recreate the creator’s vision at home with cinematic brightness, contrast, and color. Immerse yourself in the story with
detailed picture quality, just as you see in real life.
Redefining brightness and contrast
Our advanced XR Backlight Master Drive™ controls thousands of Mini LEDs with precision to deliver captivating brightness.
Enhanced by XR Contrast Booster, see picture quality with deep, detailed blacks and dazzling highlights that makes movies and
shows pop off the screen.
Billions of real-world colors
Access billions of accurate colors and shades, capturing every subtlety seen in real life. XR Triluminos Pro™, enhances the range
of hues and saturation, revealing extremely precise color in every scene and makes skin tones look completely natural.
Powerful TV processing with AI technology
Watch everything with lifelike picture quality, powered by the intelligent XR Processor™ with AI technology. Hundreds of
thousands of individual on-screen elements are processed and enhanced in real-time, boosting color, contrast, and clarity,
bringing astounding realism to your content.
Everything you stream. All on one screen.
With 700,000+ movies and TV episodes, live TV, and more available across 10,000+ apps, Google TV™ brings together your
favorite entertainment from across your apps and organizes it all, just for you.1
Movies included with SONY PICTURES CORE
Instantly enjoy top movies and the largest IMAX
® Enhanced collection with the SONY PICTURES CORE app. Your BRAVIA TV
comes with movie credits included so you can immediately watch some of the latest releases. You’re also subscribed to a
regularly updated selection of new and classic movies to stream anytime.2,3
Studio calibrated picture
Get picture quality just as creator’s intended with Studio Calibrated Picture Modes. Netflix Adaptive Calibrated Mode enhances the
picture by automatically adjusting brightness to your room conditions. With Prime Video Calibrated Mode, see movies, shows, and
live sports the way filmmakers and broadcasters intended. SONY PICTURES CORE Calibrated Mode brings studio-quality picture
mastering to your home theater.4,5
More immersive movie experience
BRAVIA TVs support the rigorous standards of Dolby Vision® and Atmos®, IMAX
® Enhanced, and DTS:X®, for a truly immersive
viewing experience. These formats were designed to elevate your movie watching with more 3D sound and dynamic HDR visuals
that are sure to impress.3,6
Crystal clear picture powered by AI technology
Bring back lost detail with reduced noise and see all your HD and digital content upscaled to near-4K resolution with XR Clear
Image™ powered by AI technology. See the authentic features of people’s faces, identify every blade of grass, and marvel at the
precise texture of buildings and scenery.7
Blur-free action
Watching sports and action-packed movies just got a whole lot better. XR Motion Clarity™ combats blur and judder by analyzing
on-screen motion and precisely controls every frame to ensure picture quality stays smooth, bright, and clear.
Hands-free help from Google
With Google Assistant, searching is easy – just ask Google. Press the Google Assistant button on the remote or try saying, “Hey
Google, find action movies” to search across your favorite apps. Access entertainment, get answers on screen, and control smart
home devices.1
Your favorite streaming apps in one place
BRAVIA Google TVs™ give you access to all your favorite streaming apps in an easy-to-navigate interface, including Netflix,
Prime Video, Disney+, YouTube, Apple TV, Crunchyroll, and many more.1
Family-friendly smart TV
Kids Profiles give kids their very own Google TV™ experience with apps and entertainment designed just for them. Kids can pick
from a selection of playful avatars and themes, and parents can restrict what streaming services are shown, limit watch time, and
set a bedtime.1,8
Effortlessly stream to your TV
Easily stream movies, shows, photos, and more from your Apple® device with AirPlay® 2 or Android™ device with Google
Cast™.9,10
Cinematic surround sound
Get a theater-like experience with cinematic surround sound and clear dialogue. With Acoustic Multi-Audio™, sound positioning
tweeters on the sides of the TV produce a wider, elevated soundstage, enabling audio to follow the action on screen. Voice Zoom
3™ uses AI technology to intelligently control dialogue so that every word is loud and clear. And with support for Dolby Atmos®
and DTS:X
® everything you watch gets the true surround sound treatment.6,17
BRAVIA TV and BRAVIA Theater, the perfect pair
Pair BRAVIA TV with compatible BRAVIA Theater models for the ultimate home theater experience at home. Acoustic Center
Sync fuses the TVs speakers with the sound system, reinforcing the center channel for elevated, fuller dialogue. When
connected, easily control the sound settings on the TVs Quick Settings menu, allowing you to adjust volume and sound field with
a single remote.11
Do it all with BRAVIA Connect app
Easily control your BRAVIA TV from your smartphone. With BRAVIA Connect app, you can adjust volume and settings without
needing your. The app also provides technical support, recommendations, and helps you discover useful features.12
Perfect for PlayStation
® 5
Get detailed, responsive game play with BRAVIA TV exclusive features for PlayStation® 5. Auto HDR Tone Mapping instantly
optimizes HDR settings during your PS5® initial setup for detailed, high-contrast scenes. Auto Genre Picture Mode automatically
switches the TV to Game Mode when gaming to ensure reduced input lag, and back to Standard Mode when streaming for
optimized picture quality.13
All your game settings in one place
With Game Menu, quickly manage your gaming picture settings and exclusive assist features in a single convenient interface.
Get access to features like Black Equalizer to reveal details in even the darkest shadows, apply a Crosshair overlay so you
always have your enemy in your sights, and use the Screen Size feature to shrink your screen for precision gaming on your big
TV.
Level up your gaming with HDMI 2.1 features
BRAVIA TVs deliver a thrilling gaming experience with support for HDMI 2.1 features 4K/120, VRR, ALLM, and SBTM. With
4K/120 you get consistent 120fps in 4K resolution giving you the advantage in high-intensity gaming. Variable Refresh Rate (VRR)
allows the TV to dynamically match frame rate of the gaming device, enabling smoother gameplay without stuttering delays or
screen tearing. Auto Low Latency Mode (ALLM) supports more responsive gameplay by enabling the TV to automatically switch
to low latency mode whenever a gaming device is connected. Source-based Tone Mapping (SBTM) allows the TV to
communicate its HDR capabilities to the gaming device, further optimizing gaming picture quality.14
Beautifully designed to complement your space
Our premium, minimalist One Slate design keeps you focused on the big picture. The versatile and narrow two-way position stand
gives you the option of a low-profile setting or raised to accommodates a soundbar.15
Discover new ways to enjoy TV with BRAVIA Cam
Connect BRAVIA Cam, sold separately, for an even more dynamic viewing experience. BRAVIA Cam recognizes where you’re
sitting in the room and automatically optimizes picture and sound for your environment and seating location. You can also enjoy
video chat with friends and family on a bigger screen.16
Compact simple remote
Our compact remote uses approximately 79.7% recycled plastic and is designed for easy control of your TV and additional
connected devices.
All your energy-saving settings in one place
With Eco Dashboard, energy saving settings are centrally managed so it’s easy to make informed, eco-conscious decisions. You
can customize energy saving settings for your TV usage, viewing environment, and the content you are watching.
Specification
Model Year
Model Year 2025
Built-in Tuner
TV System (Analog) M
Tuner Channel Coverage (Analog) VHF: 2-13/UHF: 14-69/CATV: 1-135
TV System (Digital Terrestrial) ATSC/ ATSC3.0(NEXTGEN TV / Available only when country/region is set to U.S.A.)
Tuner Channel Coverage (Digital
Terrestrial)
VHF: 2-13/UHF: 14-69(2-13/14-36 for ATSC3.0)
TV System (Digital Cable) Clear QAM
Tuner Channel Coverage (Digital
Cable) CATV: 1-135
TV System (Digital Sat) -
Tuner Channel Coverage (Digital Sat) -
Number of Tuners (Terrestrial/Cable) 1(Digital/Analog)
Number of Tuners (Sat) -
CI+ -
Software
Operating System Android 12
On-board Storage (GB) 32GB
Internet Browser -
Electronic Program Guide (EPG) Yes
Text Input Language ENG / FRA / GER / HEB / ITA / RUS / SPA / VIE / JPN
Application Store Yes (Google Play Store)
Sleep Timer Yes
On/Off Timer Yes
Display Language
AFR,AMH,ARA,ASM,AZE,BEL,BUL,BEN,BOS,CAT,CZE,DAN,DEU,GRE,ENG,SPA,ES
T,BAQ,PER,FIN,FRA,GLG,GUJ,HIN,HRV,HUN,IND,ISL,ITA,HEB,JPN,KAZ,KAN,KOR,
KIR,LAO,LIT,LAV,MAC,MAL,MON,MAR,MAY,BUR,NOB,NEP,NLD,ORI,PAN,POL,POR,
RUM,RUS,SLO,SLV,ALB,SRP,SWE,SWA,TAM,TEL,THA,TGL,TUR,UKR,URD,UZB,VIE
,zh_CN,zh_HK,zh_TW,ZUL
Closed Captions (Analog/Digital) Closed Caption
Teletext -
Picture (Panel)
Display Type LCD
Backlight Dimming Type Local Dimming
Backlight Type Mini LED
Display Resolution (H x V, pixels) 3840x2160
Dimensions and Weight
Screen Size (inch, measured
diagonally)
85" (84.6")
Vesa® Hole Pitch (W X H) 400 x 400 mm / 15 3/4 x 15 3/4 inch
Dimension of TV without Stand (W X H
X D)
1895 x 1087 x 60 (50) mm / 74 5/8 x 42 7/8 x 2 3/8 (2) inch
Dimension of TV With Floor Stand (W
X H X D)
-
Dimension of Package Carton (W X H
X D)
2026 x 1233 x 226 mm / 79 7/8 x 48 5/8 x 9 inch
Weight of TV without Stand 46.3 kg / 102 lb
Weight of TV with Floor Stand -
Weight of Package Carton (gross) 67 kg / 147.6lb.
Picture (Processing)
Picture Modes
Vivid, Standard, Cinema, Professional, Calm, Photo, IMAX Enhanced, Dolby Vision
(Vivid/Bright/Dark/Game), FPS game, RTS game
Clarity Enhancement Video Processing: -
Motion Enhancer (Native Hz) XR Motion Clarity, Auto mode
Color Enhancement Live Color™ Technology: Yes
Picture Processor XR Processor
HDR (High Dynamic Range)
Compatiblity
Yes (HDR10,HLG,Dolby Vision)
Motion Enhancer (Native Hz) Panel Refresh Rate: 120Hz
Contrast Enhancer Yes
HDMI Video Input Signal Format
4096x2160p(24,60Hz), 3840x2160p(24,30,60,120Hz)*, 1080p(30,60,120Hz), 1080/24p,
1080i(60Hz), 720p(30,60Hz), 720/24p, 480p
* 120Hz is supported by HDMI IN 3 and IN 4.
HDMI PC Input Format
640x480(31.5kHz,60Hz), 800x600(37.9kHz,60Hz), 1024x768(48.4kHz,60Hz),
1280x1024(64.0kHz,60Hz), 1152x864(67.5kHz,75Hz), 1600x900(55.9kHz,60Hz),
1680x1050(65.3kHz,60Hz), 1920x1080(67.5kHz,60Hz)
Sound (Speakers and Amplifier)
Speaker Type Acoustic Multi-Audio
Sound (Processing)
DTS Audio Format Support DTS Digital Surround, DTS Express, DTS-HD Master Audio, DTS-HD High Resolution
Audio, DTS:X
Sound Modes -
Simulated Surround Sound S-Force Front Surround
Dolby Audio Format Support Dolby Audio, Dolby Atmos
Connectivity
HDMI Audio Return Channel (ARC) Yes (eARC/ARC)
Smartphone Connectivity Screen mirroring (Miracast™): -
Smartphone Connectivity Video & TV SideView (iOS/Android): -
Wi-Fi Standard Wi-Fi 6
Smartphone Connectivity Photo Sharing Plus / Photo Share: -
USB HDD Recording -
USB Playback Codecs
MPEG1:MPEG1/MPEG2PS:MPEG2/MPEG2TS(HDV,AVCHD):MPEG2,AVC/MP4(XAV
C
S):AVC,MPEG4,HEVC/AVI:Xvid,MotionJpeg/ASF(WMV):VC1/MOV:AVC,MPEG4,Motio
nJpeg/MKV:Xvid,AVC,MPEG4,VP8.HEVC/WEBM:VP8/3GPP:MPEG4,AVC/MP3/ASF(
WMA)/LPCM/WAV/MP4AAC/FLAC/JPEG,WEBM:VP9/AC4/ogg/AAC/ARW(Screen nail
only)
Smartphone Connectivity Chromecast built-in: Yes
HDMI-CEC BRAVIA Sync (including HDMI-CEC): Yes
USB Drive Format Support Yes (Supported File System: FAT16/FAT32/exFAT/NTFS)
HDCP HDCP2.3(for HDMI1/2/3/4)
Bluetooth Profile Support Version 5.3,HID/HOGP/SPP/A2DP/AVRCP
RF (Terrestrial/Cable) Connection
Input(s)
1(Side)
IF (Satellite) Input(s)
-
Composite Video Input(s) -
Component Video (Y/Pb/Pr) Input(s) -
HDMI Inputs Total 4(4Side)
Digital Audio Output(s) 1(Side)
Audio / Headphone Output(s) -
USB Ports 2(Side)
Ethernet Inputs 1(Side)
RS-232C Input(s) 1(Side)
Power and Energy Saving
Energy Level Rating -
Peak Luminance Ratio For EU -
Mercury Content (mg) -
Presence of Lead -
Power Consumption (On Mode) for
Energy Star
-
Power Consumption (Standby Mode)
for Energy Star
-
Energy Star® compliant -
Dynamic Backlight Control Yes
Power Saving Mode / Back Light Off
Mode
Yes
Power Requirements
(Voltage/Frequency)
AC 120V for UL cUL AC 110-240V for other
Power Requirements
(Voltage/Frequency)
60Hz for UL cUL 50/60Hz for other
Power Consumption (In Operation) 372 W
Power Consumption (In Standby) 0.5 W
Design
Frame color Black
Stand Design Underlay stand
Accessories
What's in the Box
Voice Remote Control (Supply): RMF-TX820U,
Remote Control: -,
AC Plug Convertor: -,
Wall-Mount Bracket: -,
Android TV Setup Guide: -,
Batteries: LR03,
Floor Stand (Supply): -,
AC Power Adaptor: -,
AC Power Cord Spec: Bundle (C17) (US) (2pin) (flat blades Polarity),
IR Blaster: -,
Support Belt: -,
Operating Instructions: EN,FR,ES,
Quick Setup Guide / Supplement CUE (GA): EN,FR,ES,
Table Top Stand: Separate (Assembly required)
Optional Accessories
Floor Stand (Option): -,
Wallmount Bracket: Sony original Wall-Mount Bracket*
* Please refer this compatibility list: https://www.sony.net/wall-mount-bracket
General Features
© 2025 Sony Electronics Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Sony, BRAVIA, and the Sony logo are trademarks of Sony Corporation. Google TV is the name of this device’s software experience and a trademark of Google LLC.
Google, YouTube and YouTube Music are trademarks of Google LLC. “PlayStation Family Mark,” “PlayStation,” “PS5 logo” and “PS5” are registered trademarks or
trademarks of Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. All other trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Features and specifications are subject to change
without notice. Screen images simulated.
SONY PICTURES CORE 5 credits/12 months
1. User must accept Google Terms of Service (http://www.google.com/policies/terms/), Google Play Terms of Service (https://play.google.com/intl/enUS_us/about/play-terms/index.html), and Privacy Policy (http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/) to use this product. User consents to a mandatory software
update at set-up and such other additional updates that may be required in the future by Google and/or Sony. User must connect to a Google Account to use certain
advertised features, including voice to activate linked apps, and install certain apps and operating software during setup. Use of this product without connecting to a
Google Account allows only basic features and certain apps. Features and specifications are subject to change without notice. Wireless connectivity requires
802.11 home network (802.11n recommended). Network services, content, operating system, and software of this product may be subject to separate or third-party
terms and conditions and changed, interrupted, or discontinued at any time and may require fees, registration, and credit card information. Apps must be
compatible with this product. App availability varies by region and device.
2. Purchase an eligible TV and register for SONY PICTURES CORE™ by February 23, 2028 to be eligible for promotion offers. Available movies subject to change.
Terms and conditions apply, for full details see https://sony.net/sony-pictures-core. Network services, content, and operating system and software of product may be
subject to separate or third-party terms and conditions and changed, interrupted, or discontinued at any time and may require fees, registration, and credit card
information.
3. IMAX Enhanced content enables full IMAX Enhanced experience with compatible streaming services such as SONY PICTURES CORE (formerly BRAVIA CORE),
or compatible content device connected via HDMI input (sold separately).
4. Amazon Prime Video streaming membership required. 4K Ultra HD availability subject to your Prime Video subscription plan, internet service, device capabilities,
and content availability.
5. Netflix streaming membership required. 4K Ultra HD availability subject to your Netflix subscription plan, internet service, device capabilities, and content
availability. www.netflix.com/termsofuse.
6. Dolby Vision/Atmos and DTS:X content compatible with streaming services or compatible content device connected via HDMI input (sold separately).
7. Upscaled, simulated and enhanced 4K images will vary based on source content.
8. This feature is for users of streaming apps. TV broadcasts cannot be accessed when using Kids Profile. Some TV functions may not be available while using Kids
Profile, such as changing settings or inputs.
9. This Sony TV is compatible with AirPlay 2 and HomeKit. iOS 12.2 or later or macOS 10.14.4 or later is required. Apple ID account required. Subscriptions may be
required to access certain content.
10. Google Cast compatibility dependent on app.
11. Acoustic Center Sync and integration with BRAVIA Quick Setting Menu works with compatible Sony soundbars and AV receivers. For full compatibility list:
https://www.sony.net/hav_faq.
12. BRAVIA Connect app must be installed on a smartphone. The smartphone and the product must be connected to the same home network. Download app at
Google Play and the App Store. Network services, content, and operating system and software subject to terms and conditions and may be changed, interrupted or
discontinued at any time and may require fees, registration, and credit card information.
13. To activate Auto HDR Tone Mapping, must enable feature when pairing PS5 to the TV for the first time; or will need to perform factory reset on PS5 and enable the
feature during initial setup. Auto Genre Picture Mode works when Auto Picture Mode on the TV is set to ON. Both features are supported only when PS5 and TV are
directly connected, or via compatible Sony soundbar. Applicable TV models: Z9K, A95K, A95L, A80K, A80L, XR80, XR80M2, X95K, X95L, XR90, X93L, XR70,
XR50, X90K, X90L, X85K, S30, S20M2, X80K
14. Game title supporting VRR and/or 4K/120fps required. VRR results may vary depending on the game you're playing. If enabling VR results in any unexpected
visual effects, you can turn it off at any time.
15. Actual look may differ depending on TV size and type of cables used.
16. BRAVIA CAM CMU-BC1 is sold separately. Ensure TV is running latest firmware to enable all features. Supported apps and a camera is required for video chat.
See compatible cameras here: https://www.sony.net/camera-support
17. Compatible with home theater products: BRAVIA Theater Quad, BRAVIA Theater Bar 9, BRAVIA Theater Bar 8, BRAVIA Theater Bar 6, BRAVIA Theater System 6.
18. This feature works with compatible models BRAVIA Theater Quad, BRAVIA Theater Bar 9, BRAVIA Theater Bar 8, HT-A9, HT-A7000, HT-A5000, HT-A3000. HTA7000, HT-A5000, HT-A3000 need optional rear speakers to use this feature.
19. Screen images simulated. For illustrative purposes only.
20. Amazon Alexa enabled devices (sold separately) compatible with Sony TVs powered by Google TV™. Amazon account required. Subscriptions may be required to
access certain content. Amazon, Prime Video, Alexa and all related logos are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
21. PS5® system, DualSense controller, and vertical stand sold separately.
22. A PS4™ or PS5® console is required to stream your games to other devices. PS Remote Play can be used with a mobile data connection or Wi-Fi. Broadband
internet with at least 5Mbps is required. For a better PS Remote Play experience, a high-speed connection of at least 15Mbps is recommended using either Wi-Fi or
mobile data connection. Titles that require a VR headset (PlayStation®VR or PlayStation®VR2) or additional peripherals (other than a DUALSHOCK
®4,
DualSense™, or DualSense Edge™ wireless controller) are not compatible with PS Remote Play.
23. Venom: The Last Dance © & ™ 2025 MARVEL.
24. ©2024 Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. Developed by Team Asobi. Astro Bot is a trademark of Sony
25. Gran Turismo 7 ©2023 Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. Developed by Polyphony Digital Inc. “Polyphony Digital logo”, “Gran Turismo” and “GT” are registered
trademarks of Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. Manufacturers, cars, names, brands and associated imagery featured in this game in some cases include
trademarks and/or copyrighted materials of their respective owners. Any depiction or recreation of real world locations, entities, businesses, or organizations is not
intended to be or imply any sponsorship or endorsement of this game by such party or parties. All rights reserved.
26. Disney+ subscription required. Disney+ and all marks and logos are trademarks of Disney Enterprises, Inc., used with permission.
27. Compared to FY18 models. The ratio may vary by model.
28. 360 Spatial Sound experience requires Bluetooth connection and a compatible BRAVIA TV model (sold sep).
29. Clean exterior surfaces gently with a dry, clean cloth.