GLOBAL REPORT

FACTOR

How
Generation X
is quietly
driving trillions
in consumer
spending

NielsenlQ

A/ WORLD/OATA LAB

© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 2 
Thank you for the opportunity to share The X Factor: How Generation X is quietly driving trillions in consumer spending 
with you. This report provides a global analysis of Gen X consumer behavior and spending trends, based on proprietary 
NIQ and World Data Lab (WDL) data, including WDL’s consumer spending forecasts. It follows our groundbreaking 
generational report, Spend Z, and continues our mission to decode and predict generational spending patterns 
worldwide, arming both manufacturers and retailers with the data they need to maximize growth.
While Gen X won’t hit its peak spend until the 2030s, retailers and manufacturers in the consumer packaged 
goods (CPG) and Tech & Durables (T&D) industries only have a few years to maximize Gen X spend before this 
cohort’s share of total spending starts to decline. The X Factor forecasts key areas of growth and underscores the 
differences in Gen X behavior by region and country so brands can better understand what motivates this generation 
today—and into the next decade.
Our team is passionate about seeing brands win with Gen X over the next five to 10 years. We’re certain that 
manufacturers and retailers will see measurable growth if they properly invest in Gen X. If you have questions about our 
research or how to engage with Gen X during this strategic window of time, we welcome the conversation. Together, 
we can help your business maximize the “Gen X decade.”
A WELCOME FROM
Wolfgang Fengler
Co-founder & CEO, 
World Data Lab
Marta Cyhan-Bowles
Chief Communications Officer & 
Head of Global Marketing COE, NIQ
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 3 
 
04 Introduction
 
06 Who is Gen X?
16 Gen X spending priorities
 Near term (0–2 years)
 Midterm (2–10 years) 
 Long term (10+ years)
34 Gen X by region and country
 North America
 Western Europe
 Asia Pacific
 Latin America
47 Strategic considerations
 
51 The big takeaways for manufacturers and retailers
Table of 
Contents
Click on the 
contents to 
navigate
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 4 
For years, Gen X has been dubbed “the forgotten generation” in media, policy, and 
even marketing campaigns. Skipped over or bundled in with Boomers or Millennials, 
this small but mighty generation has quietly become the engine of global consumer 
spending. This report will show why the next decade represents a once-in-alifetime opportunity for manufacturers and retailers to capture Gen X loyalty and 
lifetime value.
Introduction
Gen X will be the spending leader globally through 2033, 
surpassing $20 trillion (USD). If you aren’t planning with them 
in mind, you’re missing your most profitable current customer.
⚫ Gen X will lead global consumer spending from 2021 through 2033. 
In high-income markets, Gen X will take the lead later but hold it longer—from 
2026 through 2036.
⚫ While Boomers still dominate in net worth, Gen X is second—and gaining.
⚫ Gen Xers are currently in their peak expenditure years (ages 45–60).
⚫ Gen Xers have emerged as “caretaker consumers”—simultaneously caring 
for children, aging parents, and their households.
⚫ Gen X will spend $15.2 trillion in 2025. If you treated them as their own 
“country,” they would form the world’s second-largest consumer market—
second only to the US and roughly 2x the size of China’s current spending. 
And that number will only keep climbing: By 2035, global Gen X spending will 
reach $23 trillion. 
Why you can’t afford to overlook Gen X
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved.
The time to 
capture Gen X 
spend is now.
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 5 
Our goal is to make this report actionable, with insights specific to manufacturers and 
retailers. Unlike with other generations we’ll analyze, Gen X’s spend is peaking now, 
meaning immediate action is necessary. At the end of each section, you’ll find a 
summary of takeaways and actions to help you capture Gen X spend.
If you’re unsure which actions will provide the most incrementality, our team at NIQ is 
available to assist. We can help make sense of the data for your prioritized categories 
and identify new opportunities within your product portfolio. 
Taking action
What actions matter now?
Retailer actions
Focus innovation and premium 
product development on Gen X 
today. Unlike other generations, 
Gen X can and will spend on 
quality and convenience now—
but only if you can clearly 
convey value.
Manufacturer actions
Strategically develop product 
portfolios that cater to Gen X’s
binary role as provider and 
consumer. Focus on functional 
innovation, premiumization, and 
clear value communication.
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 6 
What actions matter now?
Who is Gen X?
The 1.4 billion members of Gen X alive today were born between 1965 and 1980 
(currently ages 45–60). The time of their birth means Gen Xers straddle the analog and 
digital domains. They were born primarily to Boomer parents, and their children are either 
Millennials or Gen Zers. Gen Xers pride themselves on their independent spirit, which can 
be attributed to many growing up as “latchkey kids” with both parents working. 
In their youth, they witnessed the rise of MTV, grunge culture, and personal computing. 
Most incomprehensibly for members of Gen Z and younger generations, most Gen Xers 
didn’t have a cell phone until college—or later. Instead, their early social lives depended 
on a landline phone attached to a wall. 
Today, Gen Xers are far from the teens described above. These middle-aged adults 
now sit at the center of both their family and economic lives. They are well-educated 
global leaders at the peak of their careers, helping to usher in a new kind of technology 
revolution with the proliferation of new digital touchpoints like omnichannel shopping 
and AI-driven personalization. At the same time, they’re in their “double-dependent 
stage,” caring for their children and their aging parents. 
MTV
⚫ Digital adopters: Trust reviews, engage in omnichannel shopping, 
consider themselves “digital pioneers” 
⚫ Tech influencers: Often set household tech agenda
⚫ Pragmatic buyers: Want quality and clarity over “flash”
Noteworthy consumer behaviors
Gen Xers straddle both analog and digital domains.
Born between 
1965 and 1980
2025
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 7 
Finally hitting its stride, Gen X is poised to exert dominance with its wallet. In 2025 alone, 
Gen X will spend an estimated $15.2 trillion. Over the next decade, this cohort will remain 
the highest-spending generation in the world. 
This spending power is happening today because members of Gen X are now in their 
peak earning years. Gen Xers are also having to spend on their children (ages 17–32, 
world average) and their aging parents. 
For retailers and manufacturers, this spending (on both themselves and their dependents) 
translates to big dollars, as Gen X represents the richest and most spend-ready 
generation in developed markets globally. 
The Gen X decade
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
trillion (USD) in global 
spend in 2025 alone
Today, Gen X is the highest-spending generation in the world, at $15.2T
We are now in the Gen X decade, where Gen Xers 
will be the largest spending generation 
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 8 
By 2033, however, Gen X shifts into a new reality—and becomes the new Boomers 
in terms of spending impact. The top end of the generation moves into retirement, 
and Millennials will surpass them in spend. Gen X will still spend on their children, but 
it will be to help them financially with large purchases—like a house—rather than 
cost-of-living stipends. Many Gen Xers will also see their Boomer parents pass away 
during this time, eliminating the need to spend on elder care. 
During the next eight to 10 years, while Gen X households still have children at home, 
Gen X women are incredibly important consumers. Women in general are increasing 
their dominance relative to economic decisions for their households and now influence 
70–80% of all consumer spending. As it relates to direct spend, women now control 
50% (a staggering $31.8 trillion) of worldwide spend. It should come as no surprise 
then that, in many countries, Gen X women are the most active CPG buyers and 
most influential family decision-makers. 
There’s one caveat that manufacturers and retailers can’t afford to overlook when 
considering Gen X: While Gen X dominates in high-income countries, it’s already 
on the decline in some low- and middle-income countries due to relatively low 
average life expectancy in those regions. In these countries, Gen X spend isn’t as 
meaningful as it is in high-income markets, where life expectancy is longer, incomes 
are higher, and families are smaller. 
Low-income vs. high-income countries
Women
control
of worldwide
consumer
spend—
a staggering
$31.8
trillion
50%
High-income countries
Low- and middle-income countries
Generational spending: A tale of two worlds (2025)
 Source: World Data Lab
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 9 
When we look across regions and countries, we can easily see the low- vs. high-income 
reality bear out. Wealthier regions, including Europe and North America, help account for 
two-thirds of Gen X spend worldwide, while low-income regions, such as Sub-Saharan 
Africa, skew much younger relative to spend. 
This trend of high-income country spend dominance continues to play out through 
2030 and beyond, until Gen X hits its peak spending globally around 2033. In lowand middle-income countries, Millennials and Gen Z already spend more than Gen X. 
 Source: World Data Lab
Gen X hits its
peak spending
globally around
2033
In 2030, Gen X will be the highest spender in high-income countries
High-income countries
Low-and middle-income countries
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 10 
In the chart below, the horizontal line shows Gen X’s average share of total spending 
at 24%. Only a handful of countries meet or exceed that level. Those above the line—
China, the US, and most EU nations—are also the world’s highest-spending markets, 
indicating that Gen X’s influence is strongest where overall consumer outlays are 
largest. The opposite holds true in Sub-Saharan Africa, large parts of Asia Pacific, 
Middle East & North Africa, and Latin America, where Gen Xers won’t have as much 
impact on overall consumer spending. 
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
With Gen Xers dominating in wealthy countries, 
they naturally reign supreme relative to the 
higher-spending groups of rich and upper 
middle class consumers. Here, we’ll define 
“rich” as anyone who spends at least $120 per 
day (per person, in 2017 dollars to control for 
cost-of-living differences) and “middle class” 
as anyone spending at least $12 but less than 
$120 per day (per person). For clarity, Gen X is 
currently not the wealthiest generation but 
will spend the most during this next decade. 
For the near term, younger generations will 
continue to dominate the lower-spending 
groups. (In other words: More than one in every 
four people who are rich are Gen Xers.)
people who are
rich are Gen Xers
1 in 4
Countries above global average for Gen X spending account for two-thirds of total world spending
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 11 
Manufacturer and retailer actions
In higher-income regions and countries: Fuel premium purchases across 
key categories by focusing on attributes we know are most valued by 
higher-income Gen X consumers. 
Key attributes for higher-income Gen Xers: Reliability, functionality, 
product value (not simply price), health and wellness, efficiency and 
convenience, and authenticity 
In lower-income regions and countries: Secure customer lifetime value 
(CLV) by earning Gen X trust via long-lasting, multi-use products and 
promotions that reflect the household finances of said country/region. 
Key attributes for lower-income Gen Xers: Affordability and accessibility, 
durability and multi-use utility, availability (wide-scale distribution), and 
functional wellness at affordable prices 
This distinction is paramount: While Gen X may not be the wealthiest generation 
(in terms of total assets)—a title that still largely belongs to Boomers—they 
dominate in daily discretionary spending, and they represent the greatest 
consumer ROI in large-basket, multi-category purchases (especially across the 
Grocery, Household, and Wellness categories). For companies looking to maximize 
incrementality, Gen X is comprised of the most dependable, active spenders across 
the most profitable consumer segments. 
Gen X dominates in the higher-spending groups
Most dominant generation by spending group headcount (2025)
 Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 12 
Though Gen X currently makes up just 17% of the global population, in developed 
nations like the US, it’s currently leading almost one-third of all households. This gives 
Gen X an outsized influence when it comes to CPG and T&D purchases. Gen X spending 
power is even more impressive because its wage growth over the past few years has 
been slower, when compared with younger generations. 
Gen X is smaller in population than Generation Alpha, Millennials, and Gen Z, but it 
currently has more consolidated wealth, especially in developed markets like Canada, 
Germany, Japan, the UK, and the US. This generation also has incredible influence over 
technology, media, the workplace, and the political landscape because its members 
hold leadership positions in these areas. 
Small but mighty
Population by generation (2025)
 Source: World Data Lab
Key insights
C-suite takeaways
⚫ Gen X consumers are open to new brands if the brands they’ve 
historically purchased fail to meet expectations or stop delivering clear 
value—especially in today’s inflationary climate. 
⚫ Gen X members reward brands that consistently deliver and save them 
time, money, or mental energy. 
⚫ Gen X’s loyalty is earned through positive brand experiences and 
reliability/consistency—not hype or social proof (e.g., influencers). 
⚫ Fewer people, more value 
(if captured)
⚫ Gen X conversion = 
higher ROI per shopper
~1/3
Households 
in developed 
nations 
(US, e.g.) led 
by Gen X
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 13 
In addition to being dubbed “the forgotten generation” (a misnomer we’ll continue 
to explore), Gen X is referred to as “the sandwich generation” because many of its 
members are financially supporting children while caring for aging parents. In low- and 
middle-income countries, Gen X may represent the first generation to achieve middleclass stability. In high-income countries, their status as “CFOs” of three generations 
means much of their wealth is being spent on others. 
The sandwich generation
11%
44%
46%
Gen X indexed to ...
Total Boomers Gen X Millennials Gen Z
I am able to spend freely
I live comfortably and am able 
to buy things just because I 
want them
I only have enough money for 
food, shelter, and the basics
Source: NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
Gen X feels more able to spend freely than 
Boomers, but less able than Millennials
This may be due, in part, to Gen X simultaneously supporting children and parents.
Gen X global average:
Raw response
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 14 
Being sandwiched between aging parents and their children has led to both 
notable stress for Gen X and an effective decrease in discretionary spending.
A recent study in the US found that finances are a big reason for Gen Xers’ stress, 
with 51% feeling stress in this area fairly or very often. Of the Gen X respondents, only 
35% feel prepared to financially support their parents, and just 55% feel prepared to 
financially support their children over the next few years. 
The weight of Gen X responsibilities shows in their spending. Elder & Dependent 
Care and Education are among the fastest-growing categories for this cohort—and 
will be for the next five years, leaving Gen Xers with less discretionary spending for 
themselves. 
We’ve mentioned that Gen X’s children are on average ages 17–30 globally, but they 
do skew slightly younger in a few key regions.
 Source: World Data Lab
*Based on United Nations data, mean child-bearing age data
Average age of children by region
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X: 2025-2030
Gen X North 
America
15-30
Europe
15-30
World
average
17-32
LATAM
17-32
Middle East
& North 
Africa
15-30 17-32
Sub-Saharan
Africa
15-30
Age*
of chidren:
2025
*Includes planes, boats, kayaks, canoes, hot air balloons, horses, windsurfing, golf carts, scuba equipment, etc. 
**Includes hand tools, gardening tools, ladders, door fittings, small electric accessories
 Source: World Data Lab
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 15 
Manufacturer actions
Consider new formats and claims 
geared toward caregiving, longevity, 
and convenience in products across 
CPG and T&D portfolios. 
Gen Xers are feeling the crunch in their day-to-day choices too. For example, they are 
much more likely than Boomers, but less likely than Millennials, to stress significantly 
about choosing or preparing what to eat every day.1 They are also much less likely 
than Millennials and Gen Z to splurge or treat themselves with more expensive 
purchases. This conservative purchase pattern holds true across low-, medium-, 
and high-income Gen Xers. 
Key insights
⚫ Gen X often sets the standard for what modern-day consumption looks 
like: homeownership, education, brand aspirations, employment goals. 
⚫ Gen X consumers tend to be brand-trusting and loyal to purchases that 
help them actualize their goals relative to status. 
⚫ Gen X members are gatekeepers for their children’s mobility—heavily 
influencing what Gen Zers and Millennials consume. 
⚫ Gen X consumers look for value and convenience to help them juggle 
enormous responsibilities and financial priorities. 
Retailer actions
Position products/services as 
time savers and enablers of 
care. Dependent Care, Outdoor 
Recreation, and Household 
Tools are key categories of 
growth. Deliver omnichannel 
experiences that build trust first, 
then highlight convenience.
Collagen
Protein
1
NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 16 
Gen X will continue to dominate spending in wealthier nations for the near term. 
Though the wealth transfer from their Boomer parents is already underway, it will still 
be a few more years before Gen Xers, by and large, receive any planned inheritances. 
In low- to middle- income countries, we also see Gen X losing headcount, with 300 
million members globally having already passed away. 
During the next two years, Gen Xers will continue their place in the workforce and 
managing family finances. Their children will fill college campuses, and their parents 
will occupy senior living and nursing facilities. 
Considering these dynamics, what can brands focus on to win Gen X? 
First, let’s look at what’s working well today—and into the near future—across key 
categories, broken down by region. Again, you can see that Elder & Dependent 
Care and Education rank highly for fastest-growing categories, but there are also 
opportunities around Recreation Durables (both Indoor and Outdoor) and Travel 
(All-Inclusive Holidays, Hotels, and Air Travel specifically). 
Gen X spending priorities 
Near term (0–2 years) 
 Source: World Data Lab
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, by region: 2025-2030
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 17 
 Source: World Data Lab
Now, let’s look at where growth is slowing for Gen X. Discretionary spending is down in
some markets, which suggests that their dual-dependent status may be limiting the 
“fun toys”—like motorcycles or the latest phones—that Gen Xers buy for themselves. 
Gen Xers are also more settled than younger Millennials and have likely already invested 
in household furnishings. 
Gen X’s weak discretionary spending (when compared with younger generations) may 
partly be attributed to a focus on retirement savings. Indeed, one US study found that 
Gen X’s investments are 40% more significant than the overall population.
Slowest-growing categories for Gen X, by region: 2025-2030
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 18 
Gen X CPG spend
To get a clearer picture of Gen X’s influence on category-level purchases, we’re going 
to examine Gen X’s influence on three major CPG categories globally: Alcohol, Beauty, 
and Food & Non-alcoholic Beverages (Food & NAB). We’ll unpack what Gen X is 
spending on across these categories and the generation’s portion of total spend. 
Alcohol
There’s no question that Gen X still loves a good drink. Their global share of alcoholic 
beverage spending is 26%. That total share breaks down further into 23% for beer, 
29% for spirits, and 27% for wine. 
In 2025, consumers around the world are directing 1.8% of their total spending to 
alcoholic beverages. There are some variances, of course, with Australians spending 
the most (at 4.48%) and US consumers at just over 0.5%. 
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Alcohol generally accounts for 1.8% of total spending—slightly 
higher in Australia and Poland; lower in India, US, and China
The global “Alcohol tree” in 2024 (Gen X’s share)
Alcoholic Beverages
$692B
(26%) $278B
Beer
(23%)
$176B
(29%)
Spirits
$238B
(27%)
Wine
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 19 
Key US-specific NIQ insights surface relative to Gen X. Indeed, Gen X continues to 
play a powerful role in the Beverage Alcohol (BevAl) market, accounting for roughly 
one-third of all category spend—nearly equal to that of Millennials’ spend and far 
outpacing Gen Z. 
While traditionally more loyal to legacy brands, Gen X is increasingly open to 
exploring new products—such as ready-to-drink cocktails or niche spirits like mezcal 
and Japanese whisky. Beverage Alcohol brands that appropriately segment their 
strategies to meet the unique preferences of these generational groups—whether 
through targeted marketing, tailored flavor profiles, or sustainability commitments—
can maximize their appeal and relevance in the near term. 
This generation’s preferences are underscored in the resilience of $15 to $20 wines, 
a psychological consumer “sweet spot” that signals a search for quality without 
extravagance. This middle-tier appeal highlights a broader generational theme:
Gen X is willing to pay—but only when the value proposition is clear. 
As health and wellness continue to reshape consumer behavior, Gen X is also 
embracing moderation and better-for-you attributes, with growing interest in lowcalorie, non-GMO, and no-added-sugar options. And while not digital natives, Gen X 
consumers’ comfort with convenience is fueling momentum in click-and-collect and
hybrid alcohol purchasing, making them an essential audience for retailers that can 
balance quality, functionality, and ease. 
For more guidance on how to win this category, contact NIQ’s BevAl experts. 
~1/3
of BevAl 
category 
spend comes 
from Gen X 
consumers
~1/3
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 20 
Beauty
Gen Xers are also big spenders on 
Beauty, making up one-quarter of total 
spend for the category. They spend 
on both Beauty Products and Beauty 
Services—and maintain around onequarter of spend across key product 
segments such as Skin Care, Makeup, 
Hair Products, and Fragrances. 
 Source: World Data Lab
The global “Beauty tree” in 2025 (Gen X’s shares)
Latin America 
YOY value growth
Middle East & Africa
YOY value growth
+19.1%
+27.1%
Beauty industry
YOY global value 
growth
The Beauty industry is 
+7.3%
a global success story,
with explosive growth
in some regions:
$361B (22%)
$18B (22%)
$184B (24%)
$84B (24%)
$92B (24%)
$93B (23%)
Fragrances $69B (23% )
Hair Products
Makeup
Skin Care (Washing)
Skin Care (Creams)
Nominal USD
(hygiene, oral care)
Electrical
Personal Care
Appliances
Beauty
$1.2T
(25%) Beauty Services
$631B
(27%)
Beauty Products
$522B
(24%)
Personal Care
$1.5T
(25%)
Other Personal 
Care items
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 21 
In the near term, the Beauty industry shines as a global success story, experiencing a 
value growth of +7.3% year over year. While regions like Latin America (+19.1%) and 
the Middle East & Africa (+27.1%) are experiencing explosive growth, mature markets 
such as North America and Western Europe still show strong performances at +7.8% 
and +7.7%, respectively. This robust global expansion is heavily driven by inflation, but 
there are also leading optimistic indicators with rising incomes and new consumers 
entering the market. 
When we layer WDL data with NIQ growth data, we see an even fuller picture of how 
the Beauty category is trending in 2025. 
Regional Beauty value growth %
Globally, Beauty consumers dedicate roughly 2% of their total spend to products in 
the Beauty category. The US and China are by far the largest markets. 
Beauty generally accounts for 2% of total spending—slightly higher 
in China and South Korea; lower in India, US, and Mexico
Source: NielsenIQ QBN RMS Beauty MAT Q3 2024, 69 countries
*Fact Value % growth vs YA (unweighted)
Beauty = Hair, Skin, Fragrance, Cosmetic & Nail 
 Source: World Data Lab Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 22 
When examining this growth from a retailer perspective, e-commerce continues 
to dominate the Beauty space, with a consistent growth trajectory across global 
markets. Platforms like Amazon, TikTok Shop, and Shein have redefined shopping 
experiences, blending convenience with discovery. Notably, TikTok Shop ranked as 
the top e-commerce merchant for cosmetics during Black Friday 2024, reflecting the 
platform’s role in fueling impulse purchases and brand discovery.
The convenience consumer mindset fueling global e-commerce growth, relative to 
Beauty, positions retailers perfectly for near-term growth with Gen X, as convenience 
remains a prevailing motivator for this cohort. When examining percentage change 
(vs. year ago) and percentage of e-commerce share by region, we get the following 
breakdown: 
Gen X consumers aren’t just in their peak earning years; they’re in their recalibration
years. They’re redefining what value means in the Beauty category, seeking products 
that balance benefits with simplicity, legacy with innovation, and luxury with accessibility. 
In other words: They’re gravitating toward Beauty services and products that feel both 
elevated and grounded. Winning with Gen X in Beauty means aligning with the deeper 
values they identify with—trust, quality, and authenticity—while respecting their desire 
for products that fit effortlessly into their demanding lives. 
For more guidance on how to win this category, contact NIQ’s Beauty experts.
Value % change vs. year ago
 Source: World Data Lab
-7%
6%
-8%
15%
3%
11%
-5%
12%
4%
17%
8%
20%
5%
14%
3%
39%
7%
18%
3%
22%
10%
27%
China South 
Korea
United
States France Germany Canada Italy India Spain Australia Brazil
87% 74% 43% 39% 32% 22% 22% 17% 16% 13% 8%
E-commerce merchant share
In-store E-commerce
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 23 
On average, global consumers spend roughly 19% of their CPG budget on Food & NAB 
purchases. This number jumps significantly in India, Indonesia, and Russia, whereas 
consumers in the UK and US spend less than 10% of their budget on the category. 
Food & Non-alcoholic Beverages (NAB)
Globally, Gen X’s share of Food & NAB spend is 20%—slightly lower than the other 
categories we’ve explored. Several products where Gen X spend jumps up over 20% 
include Seafood, Fruit, Soft Drinks, and Coffee & Tea. 
 Source: World Data Lab
The global “Food & NAB tree” in 2025 (Gen X’s share)
Food & NAB generally accounts for 19% of total spending—slightly 
higher in India and Indonesia; lower in UK, US, and Germany
NAB
$844B
(19%)
Food
$9.9T
(20%)
Food & 
NAB
$10.7T
(20%)
Nominal USD Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 24 
Gen X spend is shaped by distinct purchasing behaviors. For instance, Gen Xers are 
more likely to try new products than Boomers, but much less likely than Millennials. 
Gen Xers are also more likely than Boomers, but much less likely than Millennials, to 
pay a premium to get a product when it first hits the market or to receive the product 
sooner.2 
These key insights signal that innovations should be positioned to Gen X as practical 
and reliable, skewing away from that which is perceived as “trendy.” Gen X will respond 
well to products that offer clear functional benefits, like time savings or improved 
performance—particularly if they clearly demonstrate value for this cohort’s busy, 
dynamic lifestyle. 
Purchasing behaviors
2,3,4NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
When it comes to the Health & Wellness category specifically, 31% of Gen Xers said 
they would use anti-obesity medications (AOMs) like Ozempic to support weight 
loss.
3 That’s much higher than Boomers, but lower than Millennials. 
CPG manufacturers that are attempting to win with products that complement Gen X’s 
adoption of AOMs are increasingly innovating toward nutrient-dense, high-protein, and/
or fiber-rich foods that build or maintain muscle mass and help to support digestion. 
Examples of these innovations include US manufacturers like Conagra introducing 
“GLP-1 Friendly” labels on their Healthy Choice frozen meals and Nestlé’s Vital Pursuit 
product line offering portion-controlled, higher-protein options tailored for consumers 
taking AOMs. 
Gen Xers also continue to look to vitamins and supplements, with 65% saying they 
would start or increase their intake of vitamins and supplements to support their health 
(more than Boomers, less than Millennials).4 As Gen Xers age, they will undoubtedly 
prioritize products that help them feel healthier.
Gen X is much more likely to try new products than Boomers, 
but much less likely than Millennials
Source: NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
Gen X indexed to ...
Total Boomers Gen X Millennials Gen Z
12%
30%
39%
19%
I like to be the first to try new things—I 
love to keep “ahead of the curve” and 
tell others about new products.
I enjoy trying new things—I try to keep 
up with what’s new and often look out 
for new products.
I sometimes try new things but don’t 
go out of my way to seek them. 
I seldom try new things—I find it is far 
better to know what you want rather 
than risk buying something that may 
not work out. 
Cautious
Adventurous
Gen X global average:
Raw response
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 25 
The midterm will see Gen X spend continue to dominate in categories like Travel, 
Education Services, Elder & Dependent Care, and Healthcare. However, peak Gen X 
spend will wind down by the early 2030s, and Millennials will assume the position Gen 
X had previously held as the highest-spending generational cohort. 
Midterm (2–10 years)
This weakening is driven by several factors:
⚫ The number of Gen Xers globally is declining.
⚫ The older portion of the generation is entering retirement.
⚫ Gen Xers’ dependent spend will dissipate as children leave home and Boomers pass away.
Five years from today, Gen X will start losing 
its share of world spending considerably
In eight years, it will officially lose its first-place position to Millennials.
In just years,
Gen X will lose its lead 
position for share 
of global spending 
to Millennials. 
42%
8
 Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 26 
Though we will see a decline in spending by the end of this period, Gen X still has eight to 
10 years of peak spend. In just five years, members of Gen X are set to spend as much 
per capita as Boomers do today. That’s not something brands can afford to ignore. 
If you previously thought 
of Gen X as “the forgotten 
generation,” think again. 
Over the next five to 10 
years, their peak earning 
power, financial influence, 
and evolving lifestyle 
priorities will make them 
one of the most quietly 
dominant consumer forces 
in the global economy. 
With Gen Xers in low-income countries having shorter life spans than those in highincome areas, the upper class and rich will increasingly account for a bigger share of 
Gen X spending.6 Regions such as North America and Europe will become even more 
important markets for brands and retailers looking to capitalize on Gen X through 2030. 
The global decline of the Boomer generation
Every region’s Boomer headcount, by year 
In five years, Gen X will spend as much as Boomers spend per capita today
Per-capita spending, by generation
When we look at the numbers, Gen X will lose another 100 million members by 2035, 
but 300 million additional Boomers will also have passed away.5 Over time, these 
Boomer losses will continue to shift Gen X’s spending prioritization away from 
Elder Care. 
5,6World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Middle East & 
North Africa
North 
America Boomers Europe
2025 74M 154M 77M 47M 562M 53M
2030 68M 138M 68M 40M 475M 41M
2035 59M 117M 57M 32M 375M 29M
LATAM Asia Pacic Sub-Saharan 
Africa
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 27 
To maximize incrementality from Gen X spending, the time to act is now. While 
Gen X will remain a dominant spending force beyond 2030, the most valuable 
years to capture the economic power of this consumer cohort are 2025–2030. 
 Source: World Data Lab
Gen X will start losing share of Rich & Upper class spending by 2030
It will be the last spending group from which Gen X will lose its share.
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 28 
Once again, we’ll evaluate what the midterm global Gen X spend is projected to look 
like across the key categories of Alcohol, Beauty, and Food & NAB. 
Alcohol
The next five years represent an opportunity for alcohol brands to capture an 
additional $42 billion in Gen X spend. Growth will be seen across wine, spirits, and beer, 
with wine seeing significant growth into 2040. Just two regions will account for 
more than half of that growth. 
Gen X CPG spend
 Source: World Data Lab
The opportunity:
in additional Gen X
spend in the next 
five years
$42B
 Source: World Data Lab
The Gen X Alcohol market will grow to 1.2x its current size in the next five years
APAC and Europe will generate over half the Alcohol growth for Gen Xers 
in the next five years
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 29 
The Alcohol industry has placed a lot of emphasis on winning over younger generations 
of drinkers, but World Data Lab projections show Gen X wine spending will continue to 
grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.3% over the next 10 years. 
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Beauty
Beauty will also see Gen X’s spend grow over the next decade. Manufacturers 
and retailers can capture an additional $80 billion in Beauty Services and Beauty 
Products in the next five years alone. APAC and North America will account for nearly 
two-thirds of this growth. 
Gen X Alcohol categories spending growth, global
Categories growth and CAGR: 2025-2035
The Gen X Beauty market will grow to 1.3x its current size in the next five 
years in Gen X 
spend for 
Beauty 
Services 
and 
Beauty 
Products 
over the 
next five
years
Capture an 
additional 
$80
billion
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 30 
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Beauty Services is by far the largest category within Beauty, based on Gen X total 
spend. It will continue to grow at a CAGR of 5.2%, but Skin Care (Creams) will see an 
even greater rate of growth—with a 5.6% CAGR. 
APAC and North America will generate nearly two-thirds of the Beauty 
growth for Gen Xers in the next five years
Gen X Beauty categories spending growth, global
Categories growth and CAGR: 2025-2035
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 31 
Food & NAB
The Food & NAB market will add $507 billion in Gen X spend over the next five years. 
This time, APAC alone accounts for over half this growth.
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
For Gen X, Coffee & Tea and Seafood will be the fastest-growing categories over 
the next five years, but Meat and Bread & Cereal will be the most valuable categories 
relative to spend. Even though Food Products and Soft Drinks account for the 
slowest-growing categories, they will still see a 3.5% CAGR. 
The Gen X Food & NAB market will grow to 1.2x its current size 
in the next five years
APAC alone will generate over half the Food & NAB growth 
for Gen Xers in the next five years
in additional Gen X 
spend over the 
next five years
$507
billion
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 32 
 Source: World Data Lab
We’ve already seen that as Gen X grows older, its spending power will be overtaken—
first by Millennials in 2033 and then by Gen Z by 2040.7 At 10-plus years into the 
future, Gen X members will be transitioning into their retirement years, which will bring 
new demand for Healthcare and Financial Services products. 
However, retirement will likely look different for Gen X. Some experts believe Millennials 
will see the biggest benefit from the estimated $90 trillion in assets (in the US alone) 
that will be passed down from the Silent Generation and Boomers. This wealth transfer 
will help to cement Millennials as the richest generation in history. The idea that Gen X 
may be left out aligns with recent data in the US showing only 12% of Gen Xers will rely 
on an inheritance as part of their retirement income. This is acutely problematic, as 
18% (12 million) of Gen Xers in the US have nothing saved for retirement, and 47% of 
all working Gen Xers expect to retire later than anticipated. 
Predictive data for long-term Gen X CPG spend is limited. However, as Gen Xers 
simplify their lives in retirement or semi-retirement, we anticipate their spend will more 
closely resemble Boomers at the same life stages. 
Long term (10+ years)
7 World Data Lab
Gen X Food & NAB categories spending growth, global
Categories growth and CAGR: 2025-2030
of all working Gen 
Xers expect to retire 
later than anticipated
47%
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 33 
C-suite takeaways
⚫ Dual-dependent care will dominate Gen X spend in the short term. 
⚫ Standout categories like Alcohol, Beauty, and Food & NAB will see 
exponential growth in Gen X spend over the long term, but these are far 
from the only categories that will benefit. 
⚫ Gen X will try new products—especially ones that meet their needs 
relative to their life stage. 
⚫ Invest in premium and practical now, and anticipate a pivot to wellness, 
security, and ease-of-use for the long term. 
⚫ You have five years from today to capture the highest possible share 
of the Gen X wallet. The time to act is now. 
For Gen Xers, low- and middle-income countries used to make up 20% of the 
market. Today, it stands at over 30%, and by 2050, it will be almost 40%.
 Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 34 
To help organizations optimize their innovation, marketing, and assortment plans (by 
region or country), World Data Lab has forecast Gen X’s “peaks” of dominance across 
the globe. Regional outlooks, as well as country-specific forecasts, serve to help you 
better understand when Gen X’s peak spend will hit—and how long it’s going to last—
so you can build a strategy to maximize incrementality. 
Gen X by region and country 
Where does Gen X dominate today—and where will it dominate in 2030? 
Due to shorter 
lifespans in 
developing 
countries, Gen X 
peak spending has 
already passed. 
Most dominant generation per country (2025)
In terms of absolute consumer spending
Most dominant generation per country (2030)
In terms of absolute consumer spending
Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 35 
Although there will be a global decline in Gen X population, North America and Europe 
will actually see an increase in Gen X’s contribution to spend over the next five years.8
In these regions, Gen X is the core spend engine of the next decade, but Asia Pacific 
has the fastest-growing spend of any region globally. 
The US is on the cusp of becoming a Gen X economy. 
Organizations should be looking at what matters to Gen X 
now and developing plans that cater to their needs via 
relevant products and messaging. 
 Source: World Data Lab
North America
United States 
To provide even more granularity relative to insights, we’re highlighting Gen X spend 
across countries from four key regions: North America, Western Europe, Asia Pacific, 
and Latin America. 
61%
of the Gen X
population 
live in APAC
APAC, which represents 61% of the Gen X population, will 
be the fastest-growing region with Gen X
Gen X per-capita spending by region
8World Data Lab
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 36 
 Source: World Data Lab
Currently, in the US, Gen X households (in total) spend less across almost all CPG 
categories than Boomer or Millennial households because there are comparatively 
fewer of them.9 However, they are big spenders when you look at dollars spent on a 
per-household basis. At the category level, Gen X households in the US spend more 
than Boomer households on all categories—except Floral—and more than Millennial 
households on Pet Care, Floral, and Household Care. 
Gen X is also revealing its life stage when we look at value share relative to Boomers 
and Millennials. It has the lowest value share for Baby Care (except for Boomers) and the 
highest for Pet Care, with 4.8% of its CPG budget going to Gen Xers’ furry friends.10 
Looking beyond CPG, we continue to see growth in Gen X spend on Elder & Dependent 
Care, as well as on Recreation and Health & Wellness. 
9,10 Source: NIQ US Omnishopper Panel, CPG Purchasing Total Outlets (In-store & E-commerce), 52 weeks ending Feb. 22, 2025
 Source: World Data Lab
The US is still a Boomer economy in 2025. Next year, 
it will transition into the Gen X decade.
4.8%
of the Gen X
CPG budget 
goes to 
Pet Care
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, US: 2025-2030
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 37 
Looking only at national-level data in the US is ill-advised, however. As seen in the 
chart below, wealthier Gen Xers tend to concentrate in select city centers. (In Seattle 
and Boston, for example, 70–79% of Gen Xers are rich.) 
What this tells us is that manufacturers and retailers must consider regional, 
urban, rural, and other nuances when selling to Gen X consumers. By leveraging 
NIQ’s hyper-local, omnichannel data, brands and retailers can move beyond broad 
strokes to activate with precision—by geography, mission, and mindset. 
*We define “rich” as anyone who spends at least $120 per day (per person, in 2017 dollars to control for cost-of-living 
differences) and “middle class” as anyone spending at least $12 but less than $120 per day (per person). 
Source: World Data Lab
Canada
Like the US, Canada is presently a Boomer economy. Its transition to a Gen X 
economy will lag slightly behind the US, starting in 2027 and lasting until 2033. 
 Source: World Data Lab
The US is a hub for wealthy Gen Xers: Cities with the highest concentration of 
Gen X individuals in the Rich* segment
Canada is still a Boomer economy and will only have a brief Gen X 
economy stint
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 38 
As one might expect, Canada’s Gen Xers will spend more in several of the same 
categories as in the US, including Elder & Dependent Care and Optical & Health 
Accessories. However, Canadians will be much more focused on Household Services 
and Travel than their neighbors to the south. 
Western Europe
United Kingdom
Gen X in the UK will reign supreme over the economy for 14 years—much 
longer than in other nations. In fact, their dominance has already begun.
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, Canada: 2025-2030
The UK has already been a Gen X economy for one 
year—and will continue to be until 2038
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 39 
In Great Britain, we see CPG spending for Gen X households skew toward the Pet 
Food category and away from Paper Products and Healthcare products. When 
compared with Boomer households, Gen X households purchase more Confectionery 
& Snacks, Non-alcoholic Beverages, Health & Beauty, and Frozen Food. 
Looking at the fastest-growing categories for Gen X across the UK, we see a much 
heavier focus on services than we did in the US. 
Gen X value share indexed to value share for specified group
Source: NIQ CPG Purchasing Panel, Total Outlets, Great Britain, 52 weeks ending Feb. 22, 2025
 Source: World Data Lab
For Great Britain: Gen X value share indexed to other generations 
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, UK: 2025-2030
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 40 
Like in the UK, Gen X dominance has already begun in Germany, but Germany will shift 
to a Millennial economy one year earlier. Because Germany had a thriving economy 
as Gen X was coming of age, these consumers are wealthier today than Gen Xers in 
some other EU countries. 
Germany
 Source: World Data Lab
Gen X value share indexed to value share for specified group
Source: NIQ CPG Purchasing Panel, Total Outlets, Germany, 52 weeks ending Feb. 22, 2025
In CPG categories, German Gen X households look a lot like their counterparts in Great 
Britain, skewing toward the Pet Food category and away from Paper Products. They also 
spend more on Non-alcoholic Beverages, Health & Beauty, and Frozen Food than the 
Boomer cohort. 
Gen X in Germany is also spending more on Holidays, Jewelry, and Medical Products & 
Services when we examine the fastest-growing categories over the next five years. 
Germany has also been a Gen X economy for one year, 
but will be a Millennial economy in 2037
Gen X value share indexed to other generations 
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 41 
 Source: World Data Lab
France 
The economy in France tells a different story. Boomers still dominate spend in France—
and will until 2032. This is due to a relatively weak economy during Gen Xers’ youth, 
which has resulted in them having decreased spending power compared with 
Boomers when Boomers were at the same life stage. 
That said, it’s beneficial to look at French Gen Xers’ CPG spend, relative to Boomers and 
Millennials. Here, Pet Food surfaces as a top category yet again. Gen X is also spending 
more on Frozen Food (relative to Boomers) and on Home Care and Healthcare (relative 
to Millennials). 
 Source: World Data Lab
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, Germany: 2025-2030
France is still a Boomer economy and will not be a Gen X economy until 2032
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 42 
Asia Pacific
China
Gen X is comprised of the most Asian members of any generation ever—with 61% 
of its population born in APAC.11 A staggering 37% of this cohort was born in China.
Gen X value share indexed to value share for specified group
Source: NIQ CPG Purchasing Panel, Total Outlets, France, 52 weeks ending Feb. 22, 2025
 Source: World Data Lab
Unlike any other country we’ve examined thus far, Gen X and Millennials have been 
neck-and-neck in the race for dominance in China since 2015. In just two years, 
however, Millennial spend will finally overtake Gen X for good. 
Gen X value share indexed to other generations
In Asia, Gen X growth was driven by China
37% of APAC’s Gen X consumers are Chinese
61%
37% 
of the Gen X population 
was born in APAC
born in China
11World Data Lab
Total population
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 43 
 Source: World Data Lab
 Source: World Data Lab
Unsurprisingly, Elder & Dependent Care is a priority for Gen X in China, but we’ll also see 
notable growth in the Soft Drinks category. 
China has had Millennials and Gen Xers move in tandem 
since 2015, with Millennials overtaking Gen Xers in 2027 
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, China: 2025-2030 
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 44 
India
Gen X hasn’t dominated India’s economy within the past 10 years, nor will it in the future. 
Rather, its younger counterparts have taken the reins, with Gen Z already surpassing 
Millennials in total spending power. 
Even though Gen X isn’t the dominant spending cohort in India, it’s still markedly spending. 
Wine and Air Travel are two of the fastest-growing categories that brands should continue 
to monitor for incrementality. 
 Source: World Data Lab
Source: World Data Lab
India is a Gen Z economy
Fastest-growing categories for Gen X, India: 2025-2030
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
*Includes electric razors, hair trimmers, hair dryers, curling tongs and styling 
combs, vibrators, and electric toothbrushes
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 45 
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Boomers (1946–1964)
Gen X (1965–1980)
Millennials (1981–1996)
Gen Z (1997–2012)
Alpha (2013–2024)
Generation
Nominal USD
Nominal USD
Latin America
Brazil
Mexico
Gen X spend is far from finished in Brazil, even though it’s currently a Millennialdominated economy. Increased mid-life spending will propel Gen X to dominance by 
2028, and it will remain the highest-spending generation for five or six years. 
As we saw in India, Gen X spend in Mexico has already been surpassed by both Millennial 
and Gen Z spend. Gen Z will own the next decade here until Mexico becomes a Millennialdriven economy again in 2035. 
 Source: World Data Lab
While Brazil is currently a Millennial economy, the rapid per-capita 
spending increase for Gen X in their 40s and 50s is making Brazil a Gen X 
economy by 2028
Mexico became a Gen Z economy this year. However, 
Millennials will catch up by 2035.
Source: World Data Lab
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 46 
Global implications
Segment Gen X spend strategies regionally.
• In more developed markets, elevate the shopper experience. 
• In other markets, maintain options but shift larger-scale 
 investments toward Millennials and Gen Z.
• Leverage data to 
 strategically optimize 
 product lines regionally. 
• In higher-income 
 countries, offer premium 
 (or specialized) SKUs. In 
 others, focus on more 
 flexible formats and 
 affordability. 
The key takeaway: In line with the aforementioned values and spending priorities, 
Gen X emerges as “the caretaker consumer” generation. The relatively high degree 
of spend on categories relating to the home signals Gen X’s role in maintaining multiple 
households, caring for both family and pets, and ensuring functionality across the 
homes they manage. 
Manufacturer actions
Gen X spend reveals white space for premium, yet practical, product 
innovations—particularly at the intersection of cleanliness and comfort. 
Manufacturers should leverage category and shopper data to identify where 
Gen X is electing for premium selections and/or over-indexing (i.e., pet health, 
functional cleaners, household products), and they should build innovation 
pipelines that speak directly to “value plus” product positioning. Think: 
smarter, functional upgrades; “cleaner” formulations; and multi-use packs 
and formats. It’s critical that solutions add clear benefit and simplify—
without sacrificing quality. 
Retailer actions 
Gen X shoppers are disproportionately valuable in categories linked to 
home care management, but they’re often under-represented in planning. 
To capture this spend, retailers should leverage consumer insights and data 
to tailor assortment, cross-merchandize, and target promotions to Gen 
Xers’ specific priorities: maintaining homes, supporting familial well-being, 
and safeguarding their valuable time.
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 47 
I just purchase what I need, without
thinking deeply about the brand it 
comes from.
I don’t go out of my way to buy specific
brands, but all things being equal, I’d
prefer to buy small brands.
I prefer to buy small brands over
purchasing from large manufacturers 
or retail brands.
I prefer to buy well-known large brands
whenever I can (e.g., well-known brands
from large companies or store-branded
private label products) .
34%
22%
13%
31%
28%
Strategic considerations 
Private label and small brands 
In recent years, private label products have become increasingly popular with 
consumers—not just in the US or Europe, but globally. While younger generations are 
much more willing to spend on private label, Gen X is spending big—and notably spending 
more than Boomers. However, Gen X tends to lean more toward branded products 
when purchasing large and/or well-known, established brands. 
Gen X won’t necessarily go out of its way to purchase from small brands. Yet, when 
presented with products viewed as substitutable, Gen X does show a preference for 
smaller brands over large manufacturer and/or retail brands. A recent NIQ survey also 
found that 33% of Gen Xers try to consume products made locally or that support 
their local area.12
12NIQ proprietary data
Source: NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
 Source: NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
When purchasing well-known large brands, Gen X is the generation with the 
greatest preference for name (rather than private label) brands
When shopping for everyday food and household items, 
Gen X is more open to small brands than Boomers are
 Gen X indexed to ...
Total Boomers Gen X Millennials Gen Z
72% When I buy well-known large brands, they 
are usually “’name brands”’ made by a big 
national or international manufacturer.
When I buy well-known large brands, 
theyare usually brands made for a 
specific retailer (e.g., store-branded 
private label products).
 Gen X indexed to ...
Total Boomers Gen X Millennials Gen Z
Gen X global average:
Raw response
Gen X global average:
Raw response
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 48 
Tech & Durables 
Gen X was the first generation to use the Internet, own cell phones, and purchase 
laptops. Members of this generation spent their youth in music stores at the mall, 
carrying their portable Walkman, Discman, and then iPod. The amount of technology 
changes Gen X has both first experienced and then subsequently adopted is 
astounding. 
Today, Gen Xers are purchasing smart appliances, wearable health tech, and hybrid 
work setups, and they’re influencing the technology purchases of both their parents 
and their children. As might be expected, Gen X is much more likely to adopt new 
“smart” devices than Boomers, yet less likely than its younger counterparts.13 
Wearables and health and wellness apps will likely see even greater growth as Gen X 
ages. Globally, over half of Gen Xers already leverage technology or apps to manage 
health needs.18 As Gen X spending power hits its peak, there’s a huge opportunity for 
T&D manufacturers to capture Gen X spend. 
⚫ 35% allow “smart” devices (e.g., fridge sensor) to automatically order 
new products when required14
⚫ 38% regularly use a wearable device that autonomously tracks and 
learns their behaviors15
⚫ 39% accept product recommendations from their own AI assistant
(e.g., Siri on iPhone, Amazon Alexa, etc.)16
⚫ 40% leverage AI to automate and speed up everyday shopping decisions17 
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
Manufacturer actions
Design products that simplify complexity. (Gen X doesn’t 
seek gratuitously “smart” products.) Key product 
attributes include durability, reliability, and simple 
onboarding (i.e., easy setup and/or support). Make the 
cross-generational appeal primary—this generation 
often shares tech recommendations with both their 
aging parents and their adult children. 
Retailer actions
Lean into education, credibility, 
and customer service. Gen X 
still values in-store interactions 
for higher-priced products 
but typically scans reviews 
before making purchase 
decisions. Feature side-by-side 
comparisons and strategically 
curate seamless omnichannel 
experiences to fuel purchases. 
Global statistics about Gen Xers’ current use 
of technology 
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 49 
Technology in retail
Like other generations, Gen Xers tend to distrust AI technologies and worry about the 
safety of their personal information. When asked if they avoid sharing details in virtual 
interactions because they don’t trust AI data privacy, 58% of Gen X respondents said 
“Yes.”19 Almost as many (53%) said they would wait longer for support from a human to 
avoid interacting with an AI-generated influencer or customer service representative.20 
These responses show that it’s important for retailers and brands to build trust around 
AI tools with Gen X consumers and continue to provide human alternatives when it 
comes to customer service options.
Despite their concerns about AI, Gen X consumers are far from technology averse. 
According to an NIQ global survey, more than one-third of Gen Xers say they are likely 
to purchase a product or service they have experienced solely through an augmented 
reality (AR) or virtual reality (VR) platform
When it comes to digital payments, Gen X demonstrates a strong preference for 
convenience and security. The annual McKinsey Digital Payments Survey reveals 
that digital wallet usage has become commonplace, with in-store adoption in the US 
increasing from 19% in 2019 to 28% in 2024. 
These trends illustrate that Gen X is not only comfortable with technology but also 
a significant driver relative to digital adoption. This cohort’s engagement with AR/
VR and digital payment solutions highlights its adaptability and influence in shaping the 
digital consumer landscape—particularly given its outsized global purchasing power.
19, 20NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 50 
Sustainability
Consumers are facing economic pressure and making tradeoffs when it comes to 
cost vs. values. Recent trends show that Gen X, like younger generations, is beginning 
to deprioritize environmental, social, and governance (ESG) claims in their purchasing 
decisions across many major markets. However, specific claims like recyclable 
packaging, clean ingredients, and energy efficiency continue to resonate with Gen X.
Indeed, products with recyclable packaging claims have seen an 8.4% annual sales 
increase, making it a trend that offers significant upside. According to a 2023 brandsponsored study by Boxed Water and Researchscape International, 59% of Gen Xers 
reported that they “often” or “always” recycle, surpassing both Millennials (50%) and Gen 
Z (44%)—data highlighting Gen X’s strong engagement in consistent, lifestyle-driven 
sustainability behaviors.
Gen Xers, like Boomers, place slightly higher priority on energy efficiency and the cost to 
run appliances than younger generations.21 As heads of households who are caring for 
children and aging parents, this focus on cost savings makes sense. 
While Gen Xers are 10% less likely than Millennials and Gen Zers to switch retailers or 
providers to purchase more sustainable options, they are 17% more likely to do so than 
Boomers.22
21,22NIQ 2025 Private Label & Branded Products report global survey
The key takeaway
Brand loyalty is earned 
through clear value, 
simplicity, and consistency. 
Gen X isn’t typically won over 
by hype—but they’ll reward 
honesty and utility.
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 51 
Gen X isn’t a transitional generation—it’s your present-day profit center. This cohort is 
in its prime earning and spending years, wielding outsized influence despite its smaller 
population size. Sandwiched between two larger generations, Gen X is punching 
above its weight—leading households, shaping workplace dynamics, and 
guiding purchasing decisions for themselves and for the Boomers and younger 
generations they support.
Over the next five to 10 years, Gen X will hit its peak consumption era, 
especially in mature markets critical to global brand and retailer growth. Its 
habits are stable, measured, and relatively high-value—making Gen Xers an ideal 
audience for CPG and T&D brands, as well as the retailers that carry their products. 
Members of this generation don’t chase trends; they invest in what works for them 
and those they support. If you fail to prioritize them now, you’re not just missing a 
moment—you’re risking a decade of loyalty and lifetime value.
What to remember about Gen X
⚫ Gen X is “the forgotten generation.” Retailers and manufacturers are 
underestimating their spending power. The Gen X decade began four 
years ago (in 2021), and the time to leverage their pole position is now.
⚫ Gen Xers are “caretaker consumers.” They support their parents and 
children, leaving them with less discretionary spending but influencing 
purchasing decisions for Gen Z, Millennials, and Boomers. They are the 
CFOs of their households.
⚫ Gen X spending differs across countries and regions. Retailers need to 
apply a generational country and city lens to their outreach efforts. Gen 
X only dominates in developed markets and in China. Gen X will gain further 
traction in the US, parts of Europe, and Latin America.
The big takeaways for 
manufacturers and retailers
Gen X isn’t a 
transitional 
generation—it’s 
your present-day 
profit center. 
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved. 52 
NIQ’s Global Thought Leadership 
& Content team values your 
feedback. Complete this brief
survey to let us know what you 
think of this report.
World Data Lab also welcomes 
your feedback or questions. Email 
insights@worlddatalab.com or 
visit https://worlddatalab.com/
for more information. 
Generation 
Forgotten 
no more.
We’d welcome the opportunity to partner with your team to 
ensure your innovation pipeline, marketing, merchandising 
and assortment strategy, pricing and promotion plans, and 
more are built to resonate authentically with Gen X—and 
move them to action. 
Let’s make sure you’re not overlooking your most 
quietly powerful consumer.
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved.
About NIQ
NielsenIQ (NIQ) is a leading consumer intelligence company, delivering the most complete 
understanding of consumer buying behavior and revealing new pathways to growth. NIQ 
combined with GfK in 2023, bringing together two industry leaders with unparalleled 
global reach. Our global reach spans over 90 countries covering approximately 85% 
of the world’s population and more than $7.2 trillion in global consumer spend. With 
a holistic retail read and the most comprehensive consumer insights—delivered with 
advanced analytics through state-of-the-art platforms—NIQ delivers the Full View™. 
For more information, visit NIQ.com
© 2025 Nielsen Consumer LLC. All rights reserved.
About World Data Lab (WDL) 
WDL creates forward-looking proprietary data to quantify and forecast consumer 
trends, consumer spending, demographic shifts, and progress towards the Sustainable 
Development Goals up to 2034. WDL’s advanced data science approach, which has 
been peer-reviewed and published in Nature, delivers unrivaled accuracy, freshness, and 
consistency across all demographic groups in 180 countries and more than 6,000 cities.
For more information or questions, please visit https://worlddatalab.com/ or contact 
insights@worlddatalab.com.