# WWDC 2025 — June 9 | Apple

- Channel: Apple
- Length: 01:32:26
- Views: 9.5M
- Likes: 205.4K
- Published: 2025-06-09T11:41:33-07:00
- Category: Science & Technology
- Keywords: Apple, Apple Event, Apple Keynote, Apple Special Event, Apple WWDC, developers, Worldwide Developers Conference, WWDC, WWDC 2025, keynote
- Language: en

## Description

Watch the WWDC25 keynote introducing our broadest design update ever and a more helpful Apple Intelligence. You’ll also learn about exciting features coming with iOS 26, iPadOS 26, macOS 26, watchOS 26, visionOS 26, and tvOS 26.

To watch the event interpreted in American Sign Language (ASL), please click here: https://youtu.be/UGFo6TF6d9U

Audio Descriptions: https://apple.co/4l17UpS

Tune in to the Platforms State of the Union livestream here: https://youtube.com/live/51iONeETSng

For more on the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference, click here: https://apple.co/45ajSsF

Subscribe to the Apple Developer channel to stay up to date on the latest Apple software, technologies, and platforms: https://www.youtube.com/@AppleDeveloper

“Round and Round” by Ratt https://apple.co/Ratt-Round-and-Round
“AJ's Vibe (Flipped by Black Milk)” by Robert Glasper https://apple.co/Robert-Glasper-AJs-Vibe-Flipped
“Kimpton” by Barry Can't Swim, O’Flynn https://apple.co/BCS-OFlynn-Kimpton
“Opus No. 1” by Tim Carleton https://apple.co/Tim-Carleton-Opus-Number-One
“Dance on the World” by Maribou State, North Downs https://apple.co/Maribou-State-North-Downs-Dance
“ILY” by Kapo, Myke Towers https://apple.co/Kapo-Myke-ILY
"The Chase” by Hearts2Hearts https://apple.co/Hearts2Hearts-The-Chase
“Girl Like Me" by PinkPantheress https://apple.co/PinkPantheress-Girl-Like-Me
“The Mirror” by Polo & Pan https://apple.co/Polo-Pan-The-Mirror
“Montmorency Falls” by Green Ring https://apple.co/Green-Ring-Montmorency-Falls
“JUMP “ by Mura Masa https://apple.co/Mura-Masa-JUMP
“Revolving door (Wreckno Remix)” by Tate McRae https://apple.co/Tate-McRae-Wreckno-Revolving-door
“Vacay” by Aminé https://apple.co/Amine-Vacay
“Pink Pony Club” by Chappell Roan https://apple.co/Chappell-Roan-Pink-Pony-Club
“Approachable” by Gurriers https://apple.co/Gurriers-Approachable
“6 out of 5 stars” performed by Allen Stone https://apple.co/Allen-Stone

Want to keep enjoying the sounds of WWDC25? Check out the entire playlist on Apple Music. https://apple.co/WWDC25-Playlist

#WWDC25 #AppleEvent #AppleKeynote

Welcome to the official Apple YouTube channel. Here you’ll find news about product launches, tutorials, and other great content. Our more than 160,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it.

## Chapters

- 00:00 Introduction
- 03:48 iOS
- 41:35 watchOS
- 48:48 tvOS
- 53:35 macOS
- 01:06:23 visionOS
- 01:14:17 iPadOS
- 01:26:05 Developers

## Transcript

[CAR ENGINE REVVING] [BELL RINGING] [CAR ENGINE SOUNDS] [ITEMS RATTLING] [ACTION FIGURES RATTLING] [AIRPODS ACTIVE NOISE CANCELLATION ACTIVATED] [CAR ENGINE REVVING] Yeah! I’m in the lead!
You're the only one out there, Craig.
[CAR RACING] I've gotta save my tires.
What for?
I don't know. It's just what they say.
[CAR ZOOMING] If I can just hold this line,
I can find...
inner peace.
[APPLE WATCH LOUD NOISE NOTIFICATION DINGS] [CAR ZOOMING] So glad they put CarPlay in this beast.
[CAR ZOOMING] You’re losing time on turn six, Craig.
It’s kind of all turns, Tim.
♪ F1, baby!
Yes, F1, baby.
♪ [BUTTONS CLICKING] [PAPERS FLYING] Box, box, box.
Okay, okay.
Bringin’ it home.
It was supposed to be a quick lap,
not a therapy session.
But I feel so much better.
♪ [VELCRO RIPPING] [BEEPING] [SOLAR PANELS FLIPPING OVER] ♪ Good morning.
Welcome to Apple Park.
And welcome to WWDC.
As you can tell, we’re getting ready
for the release of F1.
This incredible Apple Original film
premieres in theaters on June 27, and we can't wait for you to see it.
F1 is one of the most thrilling,
high-energy movies I’ve ever watched.
It continues our commitment to deliver
the very best in entertainment, made by the world’s most creative
storytellers.
And we're incredibly proud that Apple TV+ has once again been ranked number one
in quality programming for four straight years.
This is truly amazing!
As you know, WWDC
is a special time of year and an important moment for us
to celebrate our global developer community.
We believe deeply in providing developers
with the newest tools and technologies to help them do their very best work.
And there’s no better place to do that
than WWDC.
Today, we’ll unveil
some exciting new innovations.
And over the course of the week, we’ll take a deeper dive
with over 100 sessions, as well as labs led by Apple engineers, providing valuable technical
and design guidance.
By presenting WWDC online and for free, we’re able to share all of this
with millions and millions of developers around the world.
The apps that developers create
continue to make a profound impact on all of our lives.
And these experiences
are going to get even better with some big announcements
for all of our platforms.
So to get us started, here's Craig.
♪ [CAR LOCK BEEPS] We have so much to cover today.
I’m going to start with two things
that are foundational to our platforms.
First is Apple Intelligence.
Last year, we took the first steps
on a journey to bring you intelligence
that’s most helpful and relevant for you.
Like Writing Tools, available virtually
anywhere you type, Genmoji and Image Playground, so you can express yourself in fun ways, Clean Up, so you can remove distractions
from your photos, and Visual Intelligence,
which builds on Apple Intelligence so you can easily explore
your surroundings.
Apple Intelligence also made it easy for you to find a photo or video
just by describing it in natural language.
Create a memory movie
with a simple description, summarize emails, notifications,
and notes to quickly get the gist, craft your response with a single tap
using Smart Reply, and more.
And we delivered all of this
while taking an extraordinary step forward for privacy in AI
with Private Cloud Compute, which extends the privacy
of your iPhone into the cloud so no one else can access your data,
not even Apple.
We also introduced enhancements
that make Siri more natural and more helpful.
And as we’ve shared,
we’re continuing our work to deliver the features
that make Siri even more personal.
This work needed more time
to reach our high quality bar, and we look forward
to sharing more about it in the coming year.
This year, we're expanding the languages
supported by Apple Intelligence.
We're making the generative models that power Apple Intelligence more capable and more efficient.
And we're continuing
to tap into Apple Intelligence in more places across our ecosystem.
Throughout today's presentation, you'll see new Apple Intelligence features that elevate your experiences
across iPhone, Apple Watch, Apple Vision Pro, Mac, and iPad.
Plus, this year,
we’re doing something new, and we think it's gonna be pretty big.
We’re opening up access for any app to tap directly
into the on-device large language model at the core of Apple Intelligence with a new Foundation Models framework.
This gives developers direct access to intelligence that's powerful, fast, built with privacy, and available
even when you’re offline.
We think this will ignite a whole new wave of intelligent experiences
in the apps you use every day.
For example, if you’re getting ready
for an exam, an app like Kahoot! can create
a personalized quiz from your notes to make studying more engaging.
And because it uses on-device models, this happens without cloud API costs.
Or perhaps you're camping off-grid, poring over the hikes
you downloaded to AllTrails.
Just describe what you're in the mood for, and AllTrails can use our on-device models to suggest the best option.
We couldn't be more excited about how developers
can build on Apple Intelligence to bring you new experiences
that are smart, available when you're offline, and that protect your privacy.
Now, there’s another piece
of our platform story this year, and it's a big one.
In fact, it’s the kind of project
that only comes along about once per decade.
It’s a gorgeous new design
that feels effortless to use.
Our last major redesign was iOS 7.
Back then, we were inspired
by the recent emergence of Retina displays
and the amazing power of our A6 silicon.
Well, a lot has changed.
Apple silicon has become
dramatically more powerful, enabling software materials
and experiences we once could only dream of.
And our devices have become
even more vital to our daily lives, with more apps available than ever.
Our products are also more frequently
being used together as you move across them
throughout your day.
The stage is set for something new that will enable great experiences
for years to come.
Let's take a look.
Software is the heart and soul
of our products.
It brings them to life,
shapes their personality, and defines their purpose.
At Apple, we’ve always believed
it’s the deep integration of hardware and software that makes interacting
with technology intuitive, beautiful, and a joy to use.
iOS 7 introduced a simplified design
built on distinct layers, smooth animations, and new colors.
It redefined our design language
for years to come.
Now, with the powerful advances
in our hardware, silicon, and graphics technologies, we have the opportunity
to lay the foundation for the next chapter of our software.
Today, we're excited to announce our broadest design update ever.
Our goal is a beautiful new design that brings joy and delight
to every user experience, one that's more personal and puts greater focus on your content, all while still feeling
instantly familiar.
And for the first time, we’re introducing a universal design
across our platforms.
This unified design language
creates a more harmonious experience as you move between products while maintaining the qualities
that make each unique.
Inspired by the physicality
and richness of visionOS, we challenged ourselves to
make something purely digital feel natural and alive, from how it looks to how it feels
as it dynamically responds to touch.
To achieve this, we began by rethinking
the fundamental elements that make up our software, and it starts with an entirely
new expressive material we call Liquid Glass.
With the optical qualities of glass and a fluidity that
only Apple can achieve, it transforms depending
on your content or even your context and brings more clarity
to navigation and controls.
It beautifully refracts light
and dynamically reacts to your movement with specular highlights.
This material brings a new level
of vitality to every aspect of your experience.
From the smallest elements
you interact with to larger ones, it responds in real time
to your content and your input, creating a more lively experience that we think
you’ll find truly delightful.
Elements once considered for rectangular
displays have been redesigned to fit perfectly concentric
with the rounded corners of the hardware.
This establishes greater harmony
between our software and hardware, for thoughtfully considered groups
of controls freeing up valuable space for your content.
Liquid Glass is translucent and behaves
just like glass in the real world.
Its color is informed by your content
and intelligently adapts between light and dark environments.
And as a distinct functional layer
that sits above your app, the material dynamically morphs when you need more options
or as you move between views.
We’ve applied this same dynamic nature
across other experiences.
Instead of taking over your whole display,
alerts appear from where you tap.
Context menus expand
into an easily scannable list.
When you scroll, tab bars shrink
to elevate what’s in front of you, and they instantly come back
the moment you scroll up.
Your entire experience
becomes more intuitive, from navigating apps
to system experiences like the Lock Screen,
notifications, and Control Center.
App icons have been crafted
with multiple layers of Liquid Glass and come to life in light mode,
dark mode, colorful new tints, or an all new clear look.
The new design extends to the Dock
and even to your widgets, giving you an entirely new way
to personalize your experience.
We’ve always cared deeply about every detail of our software design.
And it’s these moments of beauty, craft, and joy
that bring our products to life.
Our new design blurs the lines
between hardware and software to create an experience
that’s more delightful than ever while still familiar and easy to use.
Today marks an exciting and beautiful
new chapter for our design, one that sets the stage
for our next era of our products and how you interact
with them every day.
We are so excited about this beautiful
new design and the way it brings greater consistency
to our platforms, which also gives us an opportunity to bring greater consistency
to the way we name them.
We’re unifying our version numbers
across all our platforms.
Our releases for the fall
that will power us through the coming year, 2026,
will be version 26.
Today, we’ll be taking you
through all of these, starting with iOS.
iOS 26 is packed
with intelligent experiences, meaningful improvements
to the things you do every day, and a new design
where we’ve also refreshed a number of system experiences and apps.
Let’s dive in, starting from the moment
you pick up your phone with the Lock Screen and Home Screen.
The Lock Screen has been updated with the time and controls
now made of Liquid Glass.
And swiping up to your Home Screen
is even more delightful with this beautiful glass edge
and a new sense of responsiveness.
We've crafted app icons from Liquid Glass.
It makes them feel fresh
while keeping them instantly identifiable.
And it allows them to adapt, whether you use dark mode or one of our entirely new styles
like our all-clear look.
Let’s jump back to the Lock Screen, so you can see how
we’ve made wallpapers more dynamic.
I’ll switch to my Photo Shuffle wallpaper.
And watch as I switch images.
The time now fluidly adapts
to the available space.
Its San Francisco typeface
has been uniquely crafted to dynamically scale the weight,
width, and height of each numeral
in order to nestle into the scene.
And it doesn’t just adapt
to the subjects of my photos.
It also keeps the best part
of my photo in view as new information comes in, like a message from a friend
or an email from a colleague.
And there's more.
We love using personal photos
as our Lock Screen wallpapers.
Let me switch to another wallpaper
to show you.
With advanced computer vision techniques
running on the Neural Engine, we generate a spatial scene
from your 2D photos, creating a delightful 3D effect, bringing your favorite memories to life as you move your iPhone in your hand.
Now, there's one last touch I really love when I'm listening to music.
I can tap here and you'll see there's this
gorgeous new way for artists to show off
their album artwork.
The animation interacts beautifully with the glass of the playback controls.
Really nice.
With gorgeous Liquid Glass
that fluidly adapts, our captivating new spatial scenes, and our re-imagine Now Playing experience, the iconic Lock and Home Screens are more personal
and expressive than ever.
Next, let's talk about
another essential part of the iPhone experience: Camera.
With so many great features,
it can sometimes be difficult to find the ones you want, especially when rushing to capture a shot.
With iOS 26, we’re giving Camera
a new, more intuitive design.
A simplified and streamlined design
elevates the two capture modes that you use most: photo and video.
And all the powerful features
that you love in Camera are just a tap away.
For example, just swipe your finger
left or right to reveal additional modes, like Cinematic mode or Portrait mode.
And a simple swipe up
lets you easily reach all your settings,
like aspect ratio and timers.
And it’s easier to change formats.
All of the options become visible
with a single tab, so you can quickly switch to 4K
when you want to capture every detail.
When you view your captures, the Photos app takes advantage
of the gorgeous new design.
Many of you missed using tabs
in the Photos app.
Photos now features separate tabs
for Library and for Collections, where you’ll find your Favorites, your albums, and easy access to search.
And the stunning 3D effect
that you saw in the Lock Screen is available in Photos, so you can experience any of your photos
as an incredible spatial scene.
In Safari, we’ve kept familiar elements while creating
a more immersive experience.
Web pages now flow edge to edge
to the very bottom of the screen, enabling you to see more of the page.
The tab bar has been redesigned
to float above the web page, and surfaces frequently-used actions
like search and refresh.
With a tap, Liquid Glass controls
fluidly reveal other actions.
As you scroll, the tab bar
dynamically shrinks to put your content front and center.
These dynamic controls
also look great in FaceTime.
When on a call,
your most important controls now float on the bottom right and seamlessly recede
when you don’t need them.
We’ve also reimagined
the FaceTime landing page.
It’s now a space that celebrates
your closest relationships with beautiful,
personalized Contact Posters.
Video messages play as you scroll so you can preview special moments
that you may have missed.
This updated experience also extends
to your car with CarPlay.
To tell you more, here's Emily.
CarPlay is the smarter, safer way
to use your iPhone while you drive.
It’s used over 600 million times per day, and it’s a must-have feature
all over the world.
We have some great updates this year
to make CarPlay more beautiful and even easier to use.
With iOS 26, the new design extends
into the car for a consistent, expressive experience while you drive.
It brings updates
across the whole system, including icons that look great in light or dark mode.
We've also added new features to
help keep you connected while driving, like a compact design when you get a call so you can still see what’s on the screen, like your upcoming directions, along with Tapbacks and pinned conversations in Messages.
iOS 26 also gives you widgets in CarPlay.
They're quick
and glanceable ways to get information, which is perfect while driving, as well as Live Activities so you can stay on top
of what’s important to you, like a friend's flight status, all done in a way to help you
stay focused on the road.
For developers,
the same widgets and live activities that you've developed for iPhone work in CarPlay.
And for the ultimate CarPlay experience, all of these updates
also come to CarPlay Ultra.
It's the very best of iPhone and your car, with a unified and consistent experience across all the driver's screens.
The first vehicles launched last month bringing new ways to interact
with features of your car.
CarPlay Ultra lets you choose
the layout and design of the most important information for you, and adds vehicle controls for features
like the radio and climate right in the CarPlay experience.
This is just the start
of the CarPlay Ultra journey, with many more brands around the world working to bring this experience
to market.
We're so excited to work
with different automakers, combining their unique look and feel, as well as vehicle features,
with the power of iPhone.
And now, back to you, Craig.
So that's a quick look at some of the ways the new design elevates your experiences.
Of course, this is just the start.
iOS 26 also has a number of updates
that will help you communicate, stay connected, and express yourself.
To tell you more, here's Darin.
The phone app is fundamental
to the iPhone experience, so anything we can do to make it
easier to use can have a big impact.
This year, we’re giving you the option
to choose a new unified layout that brings together your Favorites,
Recents, and Voicemails, so your most-used features
are right at your fingertips without having to switch views.
Your Favorites stay front and center, so you can start a call with just a tap.
Your Recents and Voicemails now appear
in a single convenient list below, so you can easily scroll to see
who reached out and what they said.
And with Apple Intelligence, new voicemail summaries help surface
the most important information.
And at the bottom,
your Contacts and the keypad are still just a tap away.
This new intuitive layout
makes it easier to navigate the app while feeling instantly familiar.
We're also introducing a new way to help
eliminate distractions like unwanted calls, which can get in the way of picking up
the important calls we're waiting for.
Now, when you receive a call
from an unknown number, Call Screening helps you quickly gauge
whether it’s something important or just another pesky telemarketer.
Building on Live Voicemail, Call Screening automatically answers calls
from unknown numbers, silently in the background.
Once the caller shares their name
and the reason for their call, your phone rings.
And you can view their response and pick up or ignore.
Hi!
No, hold on.
I’ll be down at the gate in a sec.
We have another great experience to help you on your
least favorite kind of call, one where you're put on hold.
We know how frustrating it is
to be stuck on hold for what feels like forever just to finally speak with a live agent.
Well, get that time back with Hold Assist.
With Hold Assist, the phone app
can keep your spot in line while you wait for a live agent.
Next time you’re stuck on hold,
whether it’s because you’re changing your flight
or dealing with utility bills, the Phone app automatically
detects hold music and asks if you want it to wait for you.
When you tap Hold, the music stops,
but the call stays connected, so you can keep using your iPhone
or even put it away and go about your daily routines.
Don't worry.
Once a live agent becomes available,
we'll ring you to return to the call and let the agent know
that you’ll be there shortly.
So those are the exciting updates
to the Phone app.
Another way we stay connected
on a daily basis is with Messages.
Messages provides a shared space
to express ourselves with the people that are closest to us.
This year, we’re giving you an exciting
new way to bring personality to those shared spaces with Backgrounds.
When you select a background, it appears
for everyone in the conversation to enjoy.
You have a variety of dynamic,
built-in backgrounds to choose from or select one of your own photos.
And with Apple Intelligence,
you can even generate your own backgrounds in Image Playground.
Next, let's talk about group chats.
Group chats are home
to so many age-old questions, like, what weekend is everyone free?
Instead of dealing with
a flurry of responses, we’re introducing a delightful way to visualize
what the people want with Polls.
You can create a poll for anything.
And with Apple Intelligence, messages can detect when a poll
might come in handy and suggest one.
Like if someone asks, where should we stay for our annual trip?
And when your more particular friends
don’t like the options, anyone in the group
can contribute new ideas.
Then watch as the votes roll in live.
And groups are getting even better
with Apple Cash.
Now you can request, send,
and receive Apple Cash to settle up on concert tickets
or the dinner bill right from the group chat.
We’re also bringing
a highly-requested feature, typing indicators for your group chats, which lets you know
who is about to chime in.
We can’t wait to bring you
these exciting updates to group chats.
Just like in the Phone app,
we’re bringing screening tools to Messages that help you eliminate distractions.
New on-device spam detection
gets spam out of your way.
And for even more control, we’re introducing the ability
for you to screen new senders.
So your messages go from this, a list cluttered with spam
and unknown numbers, to this, giving you total control over who appears
in your conversation list.
Unknown senders appear in a dedicated area where you can decide if you want
to mark the number as known, ask for more information, or delete.
Until you accept,
messages from unknown senders will remain silenced
and won't appear as notifications.
Even with unknown senders turned on, you'll continue to see important
time-sensitive messages, like your table is ready
or a verification code.
We’re excited
for another big year for Messages.
And now to tell you how Apple Intelligence
is unlocking new ways to communicate.
Here's Leslie.
This year, we’re making
everyday conversations more fun and more seamless.
First, there are more ways
to create the perfect emoji.
Now, in addition to turning
a text description into a Genmoji, you can mix together two emoji
to create something new, like a sloth and a light bulb, for that moment
when you’re the last one in the group chat to get the joke.
You can even combine emoji
with descriptions.
So if you’re inviting your friends over
for karaoke night, you can mix a woman emoji
with a microphone and add a sequined jacket.
And when you’re making images
inspired by family and friends using Genmoji and Image Playgrounds, you have even more control.
You have the option to change expressions, like making your friend look shocked or making them laugh.
You can also adjust things like hairstyle, so the image matches
your friend’s latest look.
And in Image Playground, you can now make images using ChatGPT.
In addition to existing styles,
like Animation or Sketch, you have new ChatGPT styles, like an oil painting style
for your friend’s Contact Poster, so you can see her elegant portrait
every time she calls.
And for moments when you have
a specific idea in mind, tap Any Style and describe what you want, like a realistic image
for a baby shower invitation.
Image Playground sends
your description or photos to ChatGPT and gets you a unique image.
You're always in control, and nothing is shared with ChatGPT
without your permission.
And for developers, you can integrate these new capabilities into your apps
with the Image Playground API.
Now let’s talk
about a feature we’re building across our communication apps:
Translation.
There are moments
when you’d like to express an idea, question, or feeling, but a language barrier gets in the way.
To help you communicate across languages, we're introducing Live Translation.
With Apple Intelligence, Live Translation
can translate conversations on the fly.
It’s integrated into Messages,
FaceTime, and Phone.
And it's enabled by Apple-built models that run entirely on device.
So your personal conversations
stay personal.
For instance, in Messages, Live Translation can automatically
translate text for you.
So if you’re making plans with some
new friends while studying abroad, your message can be translated as you type and delivered in their preferred language.
And when they respond, each text can be
instantly translated for you.
When you're catching up on FaceTime, you can follow along
with translated live captions while you continue to hear
your grandmother’s voice.
[SPEAKING IN FRENCH] Listen, my darling, 
add a layer of vanilla, and orange blossom water
to the dough.
That’s my secret.
Oh right, yes!
When you're on a phone call,
your words are translated as you talk.
And the translation is spoken out loud
for the call recipients.
Hi! Are you available
to cater a wedding on December 6?
[SPEAKING IN GERMAN] Hello, are you available for a wedding
on the 6th of December?
As they respond, you can hear a spoken
translation of their voice.
[SPEAKING IN GERMAN] Ah, yes. I would be very happy
to help you.
This works seamlessly, even when you call
someone who doesn't have an iPhone.
For developers, it’s easy to enable
Live Translation for calls within your communication apps
with a new API.
So that's Live Translation,
a powerful communication tool.
Whether you're traveling abroad,
collaborating at work or school, or simply catching up
with the people who matter most to you.
And now back to Craig.
Beyond making it easier to stay connected, we’re also improving
some of the Apple services you enjoy using on iPhone.
To tell you all about them, here's Kathy.
♪ Let's start with Apple Music.
We’re making it easier to fall in love
with music from all around the world.
First, we’re adding Lyrics Translation to help you understand the meaning
behind your favorite songs.
And Lyrics Pronunciation, so everyone can sing along to the music,
regardless of language.
We're also introducing AutoMix, which uses intelligence to seamlessly mix
from one song to the next, like a DJ, time stretching
and beat matching at the perfect moment.
And finally,
we’re making it faster and easier to get to the music you're into right now.
With music pins, just pin
your favorite artist, album, or playlist to the top of the library.
Those are just some of the updates
coming to Apple Music.
Next, let's talk about Maps.
In iOS 26, your iPhone
can better understand your routines to improve your daily commute and help you remember
great places you’ve been.
Most of us regularly go between places
like home, school, and work.
And we often have a favorite route
with quick stops along the way, like dropping the kids off
or grabbing a cup of coffee.
Your iPhone will now learn
your preferred routes and offer them in Maps
alongside other options.
If your routine changes,
your iPhone will adapt to it.
And with the Maps widget, you can
check your commute before you leave so you can get an idea
of how long it’ll take.
If there are significant delays,
Maps will send you a notification with alternate route options,
even if you didn’t start directions.
So when you have that important meeting, you won’t be late
due to an unexpected slowdown.
If you’ve ever wanted to return
to a great local business or park you went to in the past, or recommend it to a friend,
but just can't remember the name, we're introducing Visited Places.
You can choose to have your iPhone detect when you’re somewhere,
like a restaurant or shop, and then view your Visited Places
in the Maps library.
Or simply search and share with a tap.
Your Visited Places
are easy to delete with a swipe and are protected
with end-to-end encryption, so even Apple can't access them.
That's a quick peek at Maps.
Next, Wallet.
Apple Wallet helps make your day-to-day
interactions with the physical world that much easier.
Car keys in Wallet
provide an easy and secure way to lock, unlock, and start your car with your iPhone or Apple Watch.
Adoption by automakers
continues to grow rapidly, with over 20 brands
already offering car keys in Wallet, and 13 more coming soon, including Acura, Porsche, and Tata.
Now, let's talk about IDs.
With driver’s licenses in Wallet, we’ve created the most private
and secure way for you to present your identity.
They’re currently
available in nine states, plus Puerto Rico, with more to come.
And starting this fall, you can create a Digital ID
with your U.S. passport.
While not a replacement
for your physical passport, Digital ID can be used for domestic travel at supported TSA checkpoints,
in apps, and in person where age and identity
verification are required.
And while at the airport, you’ll appreciate
refreshed boarding passes in Wallet, which now include convenient access
to indoor mapping that gets you around the airport quickly.
Find My to track your bags
right from the boarding pass and shareable live flight status, so loved ones can keep track
of when you are landing.
Next, Apple Pay.
The easiest way to pay with privacy
and security built in.
Used by hundreds of millions
of customers, it truly is a magical way to shop.
And we’re adding
more convenient ways for you to pay.
In addition to using rewards
and installments while shopping online with Apple Pay, you can now choose to redeem your points
or pay with installments when you shop in person.
Wallet is also the best place
to track your Apple Pay orders.
With Apple Intelligence, Wallet can now identify and summarize
order tracking details beyond your Apple Pay orders.
It will find emails sent by
either merchants or delivery carriers and conveniently pull together
your order details, order progress notifications, and more.
All in one place, right in Wallet.
So those are some seamless new ways
Wallet can improve your interactions with the physical world.
iOS 26 also brings new experiences
to your games and the friends you play with.
To tell you all about it, here’s Ann.
People love playing games on iPhone.
With stunning graphics
powered by Apple silicon, the App Store's huge catalog and award-winning games on Apple Arcade, it’s no surprise
that over half a billion people play games on their iPhone.
So we're creating a new destination to help you get more out of your games, jump back into what you love, find your next favorite, and have even more fun with friends.
Introducing the Games app.
It starts with the Home tab, where you'll see what's most relevant for your games front and center, like updates and can’t-miss events
in games you’re actively playing, and recommendations tailored just for you.
There's a dedicated tab for Apple Arcade, where subscribers can access
the whole catalog and the latest updates and releases.
And over on the Library tab, you can see all the games
you’ve ever downloaded from the App Store.
You can easily jump back into the games
you want to continue playing, whether in portrait or landscape.
And it works great with a controller, making it easy to move
from one game to the other.
Next, head over to the Play Together tab
to see what your friends are playing, compare scores and achievements,
and invite them to play.
We’re also making it easier to bring friends in on the fun
with Challenges, a new way to compete with friends
in score-based showdowns.
You’ll find them in some of the most
exciting games on the App Store, like Thronefall,
where you can challenge your friends to see who can survive
the most waves of enemies, and in popular Apple Arcade games
like Skate City New York to compete on racking up
the highest score in each week’s featured course.
And for developers, challenges are built
on top of Game Center leaderboards, so single-player games can be turned
into fun competitions with friends, offering even more ways to rally a group, see scores in real time,
crown a winner, and have a rematch.
So that’s the Games app, your all-in-one destination
for games and playing with friends.
And now, back to Craig.
We have one more update to iOS
we want to tell you about today, and that’s a big update
to Visual Intelligence.
Visual Intelligence builds
on Apple Intelligence to help you explore your surroundings.
So you can simply press the
Camera Control or Action button to pull up ratings for a cafe you walk by, or find sneakers similar to the ones
you see when you’re out and about.
It’s the fastest way to learn
about the objects and places around you.
And now we’re extending
Visual Intelligence to your iPhone screen, so you can search
and take action across your apps using anything you’re viewing.
And we’ve designed it so you can tap into the capability of apps
from across the App Store.
To give you a closer look, here's Billy.
Visual Intelligence
makes it faster to do more with the content on your iPhone screen.
And it works automatically with any app.
Say I open a social media app and I see this great jacket.
I want to know where
I can get something like this.
I can find out with Visual Intelligence and I can access it
with a familiar gesture by pressing the same buttons
I use to take a screenshot.
Now at the top, I have screenshot controls
like markup and share.
At the bottom,
I have Visual Intelligence tools like this image search button
in the bottom right.
I can tap here to find
similar images on Google or other apps I use frequently.
Thanks to Visual Intelligence, I know where to get a jacket like this.
Let's keep scrolling.
I dig this lamp,
so I'll bring up Visual Intelligence.
And now, I can highlight
a search for similar lamps across my most used apps, like Etsy.
And when I tap on a result I like, it takes me right into the app, so I can save this lamp to my favorites.
Now I want to see what else is going on.
Okay, suppose I come across
an event I'm interested in, and I want to add it to my calendar.
Visual Intelligence
makes this easier than ever.
Notice the Add to Calendar
suggestion at the bottom?
With Apple Intelligence, it can extract the date,
time, and location and pre-populate them.
I'll tap Create Event.
Easy as that.
I want to show you one last example.
If I have a question about something
on my screen, like this instrument, I can simply tap on the Ask button
in the bottom left to ask ChatGPT, “Which rock songs
is this instrument featured in?” I love that I can jog my memory like this
without jumping between apps.
And there it is.
Just what I wanted to know.
Visual Intelligence makes it easy
for me to search across apps, take action, and ask questions.
Now, back to Craig.
So those are just a few examples
of how Visual Intelligence makes it faster to do more
with the content on your iPhone screen.
For developers, you can use App Intents to integrate search capabilities
from your apps into this experience.
We’re also making it possible for you
to search visually across your most-used apps using Visual Intelligence
with the iPhone camera.
So you can simply point your iPhone
when you want to search the Anthropologie app
for a cool item you spot at a cafe.
We're excited for all the ways that Visual Intelligence
will help you do more with what’s in front of you.
So that's iOS 26.
A stunning new design,
Apple Intelligence capabilities integrated throughout the system, and improvements to the apps
you use every day.
And it includes many more features that are going to make
your iPhone experience even better.
Next, I’ll hand it over to David
to tell you about the latest on WatchOS.
Apple Watch is indispensable.
whether using it
to stay connected with friends, track a workout,
or just live a healthy life.
And with watchOS 26,
we continue to push this further, with enhancements to many of the features
you use every day.
And as you heard earlier, it has the gorgeous new design
with Liquid Glass to deliver a fresh look
while maintaining the instant familiarity of watchOS.
It brings a more expressive experience
in places like the Smart Stack, the numerals of the Photos face,
Control Center, and in-app navigation and controls while bringing more focus to your content.
In addition to these design updates, watchOS now uses intelligence to gain a deeper understanding of you and proactively give you what you need, starting with Workout.
For times when you need
a little more inspiration, watchOS introduces
an exciting new fitness feature, Workout Buddy.
With Apple Intelligence, Workout Buddy can motivate you
in a new and unique way based on your fitness history.
Here's Stephanie to tell you all about it.
Workout Buddy is pretty incredible.
It simultaneously gathers all the data
from your workout and rapidly analyzes
vast amounts of your fitness history, like your paces, miles logged,
Activity rings closed, even your training load to identify
meaningful insights in real time.
Combined with Apple Intelligence
on your iPhone, it provides you with
just the right encouragement.
A brand new text-to-speech model
translates that encouragement into a dynamic, generative voice.
It’s built using voice data
from a Fitness Plus trainer, so it has the right energy,
style, and tone for a workout.
And you can choose from multiple voices to hear the one that's right for you.
Let's see it in action.
The Workout app is updated,
so it’s easier to access what you need.
As soon as you start your run, Workout Buddy can kick off
with a pep talk.
Great job starting your run.
This is your second run this week.
You’re crushing it, closing that Move ring
for six straight days.
Let’s keep building on that
with your run today, fueled by some house vibes from Mura Masa.
Workout Buddy will also mark key moments.
Four miles down.
Your last mile was your fastest yet, coming in at 8 minutes and 56 seconds.
Your average heart rate for that split
was 157 beats per minute.
And can help you
celebrate accomplishments.
You just crushed your 100th mile
for running workouts this year.
Keep up the great work!
After you end your workout,
it recognizes your effort.
Fantastic run!
You averaged a pace of 9 minutes
and 7 seconds per mile across 6.3 miles.
And your average heart rate
was 153 beats per minute.
Plus, you earned your first
10K Run award.
And that’s something
to really be proud of.
Have a wonderful day.
And that's Workout Buddy.
It’s personal and private
and will be available starting in English across the most popular workout types.
So no matter where, when, or how
you get your workout in, it’ll be the boost you need to reach
the finish line.
Workout is one of the most popular apps
on Apple Watch, so we wanted to give it
a brand new layout.
Now, features like Custom Workout
and Race Route are just a tap away, so you can easily create a Custom Workout
with work and recovery intervals, or race against your last or best time
from your favorite route.
And there are new media features
built right into the app.
For your music, you can keep it simple
and let Apple Music choose the best playlist
based on the workout you’re doing and the music you love.
Or instead of having Apple Music choose,
you can select playlists or podcasts that are suggested based on what
you’ve been listening to for that type of workout.
So whether it’s your media
or Workout Buddy, getting active
has never been more inspiring.
Back to David.
watchOS also enhances features
like the Smart Stack, which has fundamentally changed
how you interact with Apple Watch by quickly identifying
what matters in the moment and prioritizing that information for you.
This year, the Smart Stack improves
its prediction algorithm by fusing on-device data, like points of interest,
location, and more, and trends from your daily routine, so it can accurately predict features
that could be immediately useful to you.
So when you walk into your gym
for that regular morning session, a Smart Stack hint will subtly appear.
And when you open the Smart Stack, a widget will be ready for you
to start your workout.
Or when Apple Watch detects
that you’re in a remote location with no connectivity, a hint will appear to start Backtrack
to support you while you’re off the grid.
We’re also making
Apple Watch more proactive with enhancements to notifications.
You might use Silent mode
to avoid receiving a loud alert at an inopportune moment.
[DING] Like that.
But now Apple Watch can interpret
the ambient noise in your environment and automatically adjust the volume
of incoming calls and notifications.
[QUIET DING] Much better.
And when you receive a notification
that you want to address later, a new wrist flick gesture will dismiss it
and take you back to your watch face.
You can also use wrist flick
to mute incoming calls, silence timers and alarms,
or even close the Smart Stack.
Wrist flick adds to the convenient
gestures like double tap, and we can't wait for you to try it.
For times when you do want to address a
notification, like a text from a friend, the Messages app gets even better with many of the features
you heard about earlier.
With Apple Intelligence, Live Translation
makes staying connected to your loved ones who speak a different language
as simple as raising your wrist.
Conversation backgrounds
elevate the experience.
And now, based on
the context of the message, you can quickly perform new actions
that are intelligently provided using machine learning, like sharing your location through Find My
when someone’s looking for you.
We’re also giving you a quick new way
to capture what’s important with Notes, which now comes to Apple Watch.
It’s perfect for when you want to save
a quick note to yourself or view an existing note,
like the great TV recommendation you got from your friend, so you can get started
on Season 1 of Stick right away.
WatchOS also has new APIs for developers.
The Smart Stack can intelligently show
a widget for Slopes when you arrive at a ski resort
with improved location APIs, And now, Dark Noise can add
a custom control to Control Center, so it can easily turn on
a sleep soundscape without picking up your iPhone.
That's what's coming to WatchOS 26.
A delightful new design with Liquid Glass,
more intelligence and messages, hints for the smart stack,
and a new wrist flick gesture.
And Apple Intelligence
comes to Fitness with Workout Buddy.
Next up, here's Justin to talk about tvOS.
tvOS brings the best of Apple
into your living room.
Like Apple TV+
Original shows and movies, the massive Apple Music catalog, and everything you love
from our app developers.
With tvOS 26, we're making Apple TV more
enjoyable than ever.
And it all begins with the new design
with Liquid Glass, which looks incredible on the big screen.
App icons feel more vibrant,
thanks to their layered design and new specular highlights
that bring depth and detail to every edge.
Next, let's take a look
at some of the changes coming to two of our most popular apps, starting with TV and how the new design
enhances the Apple TV app experience.
As you settle into a show like
Your Friends &amp; Neighbors on Apple TV+, you'll immediately notice how playback
controls refract the content underneath, beautifully complementing the action
without distracting from the story.
This unobtrusive design
carries through to Control Center, so when you're setting a sleep timer,
the video still shines through.
And as you browse,
you'll see a bold new look with beautiful cinematic poster art,
making it fun and easy to explore all your favorite shows and movies.
Of course, with Apple TV+, there's always
something new to watch, with a fantastic lineup
of Originals coming.
Let's take a sneak peek.
Why are you the one to tell this story?
What do you see that no one else does?
You will send a message to the world.
This is only the beginning.
Think bigger.
This is our home.
I will protect us.
The future was here.
It's time to see what lies beyond it.
So you get a real thrill
from being in the action.
Should we have written SOS?
No, this is way more us.
They'll get it.
The hard times will come from the money and the mayhem follows.
We’re a stone’s throw from mutiny.
I have 22 kids on that bus.
I gotta get them to their parents.
Butts down, everybody!
You should have seen how far you flew.
It was incredible.
This is where everything is headed.
The question I have for you, can you handle it?
Hang on!
If this is a performance review, I have to tell you
I am absolutely killing it.
And that was just a taste.
Hope y'all are ready.
With so much to enjoy, it's important to quickly get
to the shows you love.
And that's exactly what profiles deliver.
Now, you can set Apple TV
to display profiles whenever it wakes from sleep, so everyone at home can choose their own
and jump right back into the TV, sports, and music
that matter most to them.
And for developers, tvOS also introduces
a new API for Automatic Sign-In, linking app logins to an Apple Account.
That means no more signing in
across each of your Apple devices, greatly simplifying how you set up
a new Apple TV.
Of course, watching great shows
is just one part of what makes Apple TV so powerful.
Apple Music is another favorite,
whether you’re relaxing to a chill playlist
or sharing a spotlight with Sing.
With tvOS, singing along with Apple Music
gets even better.
Your iPhone becomes the mic,
amplifying your voice through the TV with visual effects that
light up the big screen.
When you're with friends,
everyone can join in, using their own iPhone
to add songs to the queue, react with on-screen emoji, or take a turn and sing along
with their favorite artist.
And that's just some of
what's coming to tvOS 26.
The new design with Liquid Glass
makes the experience more vibrant and immersive, the Apple TV app adds
beautiful new poster art, and Apple Music Sing is even more fun.
Now, here's Craig to talk about macOS.
[CAR ENGINE REVVING] [BIKE BELL] macOS is loved by everyone
from students and creatives to developers and anyone who appreciates its beautifully simple and
powerful experience.
This year, we’re building on
what you love most about macOS with a release made for all
of its different users.
But what should we call it?
Well, our crack product marketing team
was adamant that they’d fully earned
their annual paycheck the moment they noticed that years end in
two-digit numbers.
But macOS demands more.
Fortunately, after carving
some bodacious tracks during one of their mandatory weekly
Ski Strategy Sessions, they bumbled into their legendary microbus
and let gravity guide them to a breathtaking spot where crystal
clear waters meet majestic mountain peaks.
They'd found it.
Let me introduce you to macOS Tahoe.
macOS Tahoe is all about giving you
beautiful and powerful tools for the unique ways you use Mac.
It includes many of the features
you heard about in iOS, like backgrounds and screening tools
in Messages, more options in Image Playground
and Genmoji, and Live Translation.
And it introduces many more updates,
taking the macOS experience to the next level.
Starting with the stunning new design.
It elevates the iconic elements of macOS,
making them at once fresh and timelessly Mac.
From the moment you unlock,
the desktop is instantly familiar.
Widgets, the Dock, and app icons
have been refined with Liquid Glass, which also elevates
the experience in your apps.
Sidebars and toolbars reflect
the depth of your workspace and offer a subtle hint of the content
with an easy reach as you scroll.
This updated design
doesn't just look stunning.
It also enhances the macOS experience
in new ways.
The menu bar
is now completely transparent, making your display feel larger.
And there are more ways
to customize what controls appear in the menu bar and Control Center,
and how they’re laid out.
There are so many new controls
to choose from.
You can even add controls
for your favorite Mac apps, like Zoom and iPhone apps too.
We've also unlocked entirely new ways
to personalize your Mac.
You can change the color of your folders and add a symbol or emoji
to give them a unique identity.
It's fantastic for projects.
Along with your personalized wallpaper
and theme colors, it's easier than ever to make your Mac
a seamless extension of your style.
You can go for that sleek, clear look or dial up the dark aesthetic
to match your workspace.
No matter what you do,
this new design makes the macOS experience even more vibrant,
expressive, and personal.
Speaking of great new experiences, let’s talk about the power of Continuity.
Continuity helps you work seamlessly
across Apple devices.
And we're excited to introduce two new
Continuity features.
First, we're bringing
Live Activities to Mac.
So if you've ordered Uber Eats
on your iPhone, the Live Activity also appears
in the menu bar.
And when you click,
the app opens in iPhone Mirroring, so you can take action
directly on your Mac.
We're also enhancing
the calling experience by bringing the Phone app to Mac.
You can conveniently access
your familiar content like Recents, Contacts, and Voicemail
synced from iPhone, and easily make a call with just a click.
Incoming calls look beautiful
on the bigger screen featuring stunning Contact Posters
of your friends and family.
And the Phone app on Mac
includes all the great updates we talked about earlier, like Hold Assist, Call Screening,
and Live Translation.
So that’s what’s new in Continuity.
Next, let's talk about some new features
inspired by how pros work on Mac, starting with Shortcuts.
Here's Raja to tell you more.
Shortcuts help people get more done,
faster every day.
They combine multiple steps
from your favorite apps to create powerful personal automations.
In macOS Tahoe,
you can run them automatically, for example, at a specific time of day, or when you take actions
like saving a file to a folder or connecting to a display.
And with Apple Intelligence,
we're introducing intelligent actions that let you create shortcuts
that are more powerful than ever.
You'll see dedicated actions for features
that you're already familiar with, like summarizing text with Writing Tools
or creating images with Image Playground.
We've also added
an incredibly powerful new action that lets you tap directly
into Apple Intelligence models and provides responses that feed
into the rest of your shortcut.
For example, if you're a student, you can build a shortcut
to compare your recording from a lecture to the notes you took and add any key points you missed.
You can access
Apple Intelligence models on device, with Private Cloud Compute, or use ChatGPT if you wanna tap into its broad
world knowledge and expertise.
One of the quickest ways you
can run shortcuts is with Spotlight, where we've got more updates to share.
Spotlight has always been
the central place to search for things.
And now, Spotlight is getting
its biggest update ever.
To start, Spotlight is becoming
the fastest way to browse your content on Mac.
It puts your most relevant files
within easy reach, including intelligent suggestions
based on your routines or what you're currently working on.
You can also see all your apps.
And thanks to iPhone Mirroring,
you can even launch apps that you only have on your iPhone,
like Headspace.
We're also introducing system
and app actions in Spotlight.
You can take hundreds of actions
from creating an event to starting an audio recording,
or even playing a podcast.
And you can do this no matter what app
you're currently working in.
You can even fill out parameters
for an action.
Say you want to send an email.
You can write the message,
set the recipient, and add a subject, all without
lifting your hands off the keyboard.
Plus, many bar items for the app you're in
can be accessed right from Spotlight.
And for developers, these are surfaced in
Spotlight automatically.
This is great
in a feature-rich app like Acorn.
To make taking action in Spotlight
even faster, we’re introducing quick keys.
These are short strings of characters that
get you right to what you're looking for.
For instance, sending a message
can be done by simply typing "sm" and adding a new reminder
can be done by typing “ar” and then just typing the reminder.
Quick keys are automatically provided
for system and app actions you’ve taken.
Now, I wanna show you how I use Spotlight
to get things done fast.
I'll type command space
to bring up Spotlight and search for a document where I've been working
on a new feature idea.
Searching in Spotlight
is better than ever.
All result types are listed together,
intelligently ranked by relevance to me.
And I can filter results if needed too.
Let's open this.
I have an image I copied to my clipboard.
Let me paste that in.
Great. Next, quick resize.
Looks good.
But maybe this would look better
without the background.
Spotlight makes it so easy
to take action from the keyboard.
I'll search for background removal, and there's the Pages menu item.
I'll just hit Return.
There we go.
Let me quickly adjust where it sits.
Cool.
There's a chart that I copied
earlier today that I wanna bring in here too.
What's great is that with macOS Tahoe, I can now use Spotlight
to get to my clipboard history.
Here it is on the right.
This is super helpful
to get back to an image, some text, or a link
I copied earlier in the day.
There’s the chart I had in mind.
I’ll hit return and bring it into my doc.
And let's just resize that
and bring it into the corner.
Perfect. This is coming together,
but it could use a better tagline.
I've got a shortcut I've built
for moments like this.
I can run it from Spotlight, and I can get to it even faster
with the quick key I’ve assigned to it: “ct” for Create Taglines.
Spotlight is now contextually aware and suggests using the document
I'm currently working in.
The shortcut then takes that document,
taps into Apple Intelligence models, and gives me fresh ideas.
Check it out.
Hmm, maybe, okay, that one’s great.
I'll just hit Return to add that in.
Love it. Now that this is in great shape, I wanna add it to the Freeform board where my team and I
organize our big ideas.
I'll search for that board in Spotlight.
Spotlight knows I add docs
to this Ideas board regularly, so it actually offers that
as an action, right here.
It's all ready to go with the document
queued up in everything.
Awesome.
There it is with all the edits
I just made.
I’ll just move it over here
with my Favorite Concepts.
The team is gonna have fun with this one.
So that's a glimpse at how Spotlight
and Shortcuts power up my workflow.
And for developers,
you can make your apps content and actions discoverable in Spotlight
and available for use in Shortcuts using the App Intents API.
Now, back to Craig.
From design to Continuity
and productivity, macOS Tahoe delivers great updates
across the board.
It also levels up the gaming experience,
starting with the new Games app, which brings together all the games
you have on Mac.
And when you're in the game,
a click on a controller brings up the new Game Overlay, where you can adjust the system settings
that matter most mid-game, chat with friends, or invite them to play.
And for developers,
macOS Tahoe introduces Metal 4, which brings next-generation rendering
technologies to games, like frame interpolation,
denoising, and more.
Alongside these improvements, there's a growing catalog
of incredible titles.
So many games have recently arrived,
and there are even more on the way.
Like Crimson Desert from Pearl Abyss,
which takes advantage of Apple silicon to deliver incredible visuals
and dynamic effects, providing a breathtaking open world
with immersive details.
Or inZOI, which brings new life
to player-driven storytelling with deep customization
and gorgeous visuals.
Apple silicon and MetalFX
make every character and light source feel vivid and real, while the Neural Engine delivers
exceptional performance for AI models.
You can pre-order inZOI
on Mac starting today, and it will be available later this year
alongside consoles and PCs.
So that's what's new with gaming on Mac.
And that wraps up macOS Tahoe,
a stunningly powerful release.
It introduces a gorgeous new design,
delightful Continuity experiences, along with great features
to turbocharge your productivity.
Next, to tell you all about
what's coming in visionOS, here's Mike.
Just last year,
we delivered Apple Vision Pro, a revolutionary spatial computer that seamlessly blends digital content
with the physical world.
Consumers and enterprises alike
love Vision Pro because it unlocks experiences
that just weren't possible before.
This year, we're introducing
an expansive update to visionOS.
visionOS 26 is packed
with groundbreaking spatial experiences, powerful features for enterprise, expanded input
with new spatial accessories, and exciting spatial content to enjoy.
And this is in addition to Apple Intelligence
features introduced today, like updates to Image Playground,
new supported languages, and more.
Let's start with some of the amazing
new spatial experiences coming to visionOS, like widgets.
Users love widgets.
They offer personalized
and useful information at a glance.
In visionOS, they become spatial,
integrating seamlessly into your space.
And they are persistent,
staying right where you place them.
They're also customizable.
Frame width, color, and depth can all be personalized to your liking.
visionOS now has beautiful
new widgets like Clock with distinctive and exquisitely detailed
clock face designs.
Weather that adapts to today's forecast.
Music for quick access
to your favorite tunes.
And Photos which can
transform a stunning panorama into a window to another time or place.
All these and more can be found
in the new Widgets app, including ones from
your favorite compatible apps.
And developers can create
widgets for their apps too.
visionOS will also remember
where you put your apps, so you can arrange your space
with digital content that will be there every time
you put on Vision Pro, even if you restart it.
Earlier, iOS introduced us
to spatial scenes, and they're also coming to visionOS.
Here's Haley to tell you about it.
Last year, we made it easy to add
natural-looking depth to your 2D photos.
With visionOS 26, we're making
your memories feel even more realistic.
It uses a new AI algorithm that leverages
computational depth to create multiple perspectives
from your 2D photos, making the images more lifelike.
These spatial scenes feel as if you could
lean right into them and look around.
We can't wait for you to try
this out in the Photos app.
You can also view these in
the new Spatial Gallery app, where you can explore fresh
and exciting content curated by Apple.
Spatial scenes will make your web browsing
experience more engaging too.
Simply select spatial browsing
to transform supported articles, hiding distractions and revealing inline
photos that come alive as you scroll.
And developers like Zillow
can add them into their own apps for more lifelike experiences too.
Some of the best experiences
on Vision Pro are shared with others.
So to make sharing even better,
we’re making big changes to Personas.
We first released Personas
as a beta feature that represents you when
you're on a video call.
With visionOS 26, Personas will undergo
a dramatic transformation and more realistically represent you.
These enhancements are striking.
Hair, lashes, complexion -
all look remarkably accurate, making your persona feel
more natural and familiar.
And they're still created on device
in a matter of seconds.
Today, Personas let you
connect with others who are located remotely.
But what if you want to share
that same Vision Pro experience with someone who's in the room with you?
Now you and your friends can watch
the latest movie or play a spatial game together.
And this will be great for enterprise, where users can collaborate using apps like 3DLive from Dassault Systèmes to visualize 3D designs in person
and with remote colleagues.
To tell you about even more
enterprise features, back to Mike.
Hundreds of companies worldwide use Vision Pro's unique
hardware and software to supercharge their workflows for design, training, sales, and more.
With visionOS 26,
organizations can easily share a common pool of devices
among team members.
And you can securely save
your eye and hand data, vision prescription,
and accessibility settings to your iPhone, so you can quickly start to use a shared team device
or a friend's Vision Pro as a Guest User.
We're also adding more APIs so enterprises can create revolutionary apps
only possible on visionOS.
For instance, the new
Protected Content API.
It's literally a for-your-eyes-only mode, ensuring that only people
who've been granted access can see confidential materials
like medical records or business forecasts.
We're also expanding how you can interact with content and experiences by introducing support
for spatial accessories that enable input
in six degrees of freedom.
We're excited to share
Logitech Muse built for Vision Pro, which unlocks entirely
new creative workflows.
Logitech Muse will let
you draw and collaborate in three dimensions with precision
in apps like Spatial Analogue.
And we're thrilled to share
that Sony is bringing support for PlayStation VR2 Sense
controllers to visionOS 26.
Games for visionOS, like Pickle Pro, can take advantage
of the full motion tracking performance for more engaging gameplay.
Of course, people aren't just
working and playing in Vision Pro, they also love watching spatial content.
Like Apple Immersive Video,
which puts you at the heart of the most exciting stories, events,
and adventures with unmatched realism.
And with visionOS 26, we're enabling
more ways to produce great new content.
Like the brand new Adobe app
for visionOS, powered by Premiere, that will let you edit and preview
spatial video directly in Vision Pro.
Many people have extensive
libraries of exciting action videos, but playing them
on traditional 2D displays makes them appear flat and distorted.
To solve this, we've partnered with GoPro,
Insta360, and Canon to support native playback of 180, 360,
and wide field-of-view video on visionOS.
You can now relive these awesome
moments like you're there all over again.
And web developers can embed
3D objects directly into their pages, so you can see them in line
with depth and dimension, and pull them right into
your space for a closer look.
This, combined with spatial browsing,
marks the beginning of the spatial web.
And there are many other
new features we think you'll love, like a spectacular new
Jupiter environment.
Standing on the moon Amalthea,
you'll be able to speed up time to watch enormous storms
swirl across the gas giant as sunlight breaks across its surface.
And that's visionOS 26, a huge release that delivers more
spatial experiences than ever before, new ways to stay connected
with Vision Pro users near and far, and big opportunities for enterprises,
developers, and creators to deliver groundbreaking
features and content.
Now here's Craig to tell you
about what's coming in iPadOS.
iPadOS 26 is a giant release.
It starts with a beautiful new design, making your entire
experience more delightful.
From the Lock Screen
with the new time layout, to the Home Screen
with redesigned app icons and widgets, to apps like Apple TV, where there's
even more focus on your content.
And with Apple Intelligence
integrated across iPadOS, you can communicate seamlessly across
language barriers with Live Translation, and tap into Apple Intelligence
to supercharge your shortcuts.
There are also many other features
you heard about on iOS and macOS that are great for everyone who uses iPad, including Messages with polls
and enhanced group chats, the new Phone app,
which lets you make and take calls, and the brand new Games app
for all your games and the friends you play with.
And all these amazing
features are only the start.
Over the years, we've pushed
the limits of how portable, powerful, and versatile iPad can be.
And it's empowered customers
around the world, whether they’re just trying to escape
with some “me time” on the couch or using iPad as a canvas to imagine
their next big endeavor.
So many people feel
deeply connected to iPad, and some want to do even more with it.
So this year, we’re continuing to push
the capabilities of iPadOS even further by focusing on improving multitasking
and how you work with files and audio and video.
Let's get started with multitasking,
where we're taking a huge leap forward.
This is what you've all been waiting for:
a new windowing system on iPad.
It’s designed for the unique qualities
of iPad and delivers on what users are asking for
with a collection of powerful features that help you control, arrange,
and switch between your windows.
And we think it's pretty great.
To show it to you, here's Cindy.
This rearchitected
and redesigned windowing system maintains the simplicity of iPad.
When I first open an app,
it shows up full screen.
I can swipe home and open another,
and it's still full screen.
So if this is how you like to use iPad,
it's just as simple as ever.
But now I also have this
grab handle in the bottom right to fluidly resize apps into windows.
If I previously resized apps,
when I open them again, they open back in the exact
same size and position, and I can place them
just where I want them.
This is designed to work great
with touch or with a trackpad.
And now I also have a pointer
that's more precise and responsive.
When I use it to hover over
these new buttons in the top left, they expand into familiar controls.
I can use these to close
or minimize my windows.
And a tap on their app icon
brings them right back.
Another way I can arrange
my windows is with tiling.
Since this is designed for
the unique qualities of iPad, I can simply flick windows
towards the edges to tile.
It's so fluid and makes
arranging my windows super easy.
There's even a little grabber here to resize both at the same time.
If I click and hold on my window controls, I'll see even more tiling options.
Let's choose quarters.
With this rearchitected windowing system, I also have the power to
open even more windows.
And if I need an app
that’s not in my Dock, I can simply swipe home
to peek at my Home Screen.
Tapping an app opens it,
along with all my previous windows.
To quickly see all my open windows,
I now have Exposé.
With a swipe up from the bottom and hold, my windows spread out, and a tap brings the one
I need to the front.
If I need to make space
or focus in on one app, I just swipe home, and another
swipe up minimizes everything.
So now when I open an app,
it opens by itself, and I can start fresh, making it easy to always get back
to the distinct simplicity of iPad.
Sometimes you need a way to see and access all the features of an app.
So we're also adding a menu bar on iPad.
It's always available
from the top of the screen.
It's arranged to be familiar
with clear labeled options, and it's a great way to find
the features you need quickly.
And that's a quick look at the menu bar and how windowing works in iPadOS 26.
Back to you, Craig.
Wow, more windows,
a pointier pointer, and a menu bar?
Who would have thought?
We’ve truly pulled off
a mind-blowing release.
And this isn't just great
on iPad Pro and iPad Air.
The new windowing architecture
has enabled us to bring it to every iPad
that runs iPadOS 26, including iPad and iPad mini.
It also works great with Stage Manager
and on external displays.
It's a massive update to the way you work
with multiple apps at once on iPad.
Now, to tell you about some
other updates, here's Tonna.
Let's talk about files.
When you're working
on more complex projects, like creating a website, editing a lot of photos,
or designing a presentation, you're often handling lots
of files across lots of apps.
To make this easier,
we have a set of enhancements for managing, accessing,
and editing your files.
First up, we're supercharging
the Files app.
It now includes features like
an updated list view to see more details in resizable columns
and collapsible folders.
It also gets the same folder
customization options as macOS, with custom colors and icons
that sync across devices, making it easy to spot
the one you’re looking for.
And you can now choose which
app you want to open a file with and set it as a default, like picking Photoshop, VSCO,
or Darkroom for opening images.
For easier access to your files,
you can now put folders in the Dock.
Simply drag any folder from
the Files app right into the Dock.
When you tap on one,
it fans out showing the files inside.
Perfect for getting to your downloads, most recent documents,
or a favorite folder no matter what app you’re in.
And it's easy to drag in
and out of your folders too.
Now one type of file you might
be opening is a PDF.
And to help you with that, we’re bringing
a beloved app from macOS to iPadOS: Preview.
Preview is a dedicated app
to view and edit your PDFs with powerful tools like
Apple Pencil Markup and Autofill, making it easy to access,
annotate, fill in, or highlight.
And it also includes familiar tools
to edit images and export them in a variety of different
formats and sizes.
With the updated Files app,
folders on the Dock, and Preview, it's never been easier to
work with files in iPadOS.
This year, we're also enabling
more complex workflows for working with audio and video, beginning with better
control over your audio input.
Content creators want to
have control over their setup, including the accessories
that give them the best quality, like high-end microphones.
To help easily specify
which microphone to use, we added an audio input selector.
It can even be used to choose
a different one for each app.
This applies to the web as well, so creators can use their
favorite sites, like Alitu, to capture audio with the microphone
best suited for the job.
Audio can be made even better by blocking ambient sounds
while recording.
So we’re making Voice Isolation available no matter what app is being used, keeping voices clear and crisp.
For even more convenience, creators can now record
studio-quality vocals directly with AirPods, thanks to improved
tonal balance and timbre to authentically represent
the texture of your voice, making AirPods a great choice
for producing content.
And to make recording
from a distance even easier, creators can use AirPods
to start and stop video recording with a simple press and hold.
We've also made something
for all you podcasters out there who record using video calls.
Local capture lets you
produce amazing content with high-quality recordings
right from iPad.
It works with any of your
favorite video conferencing apps.
Just turn it on in Control Center and your own local
high-quality audio and video are captured on your iPad.
Echo cancellation
of other participants' audio keeps your voice front and center.
So you get a clear recording
of your side of the call.
Once it’s over, everyone
who used Local capture can easily share their
own audio and video files, letting you produce
an interview or podcast with the clearest recordings
gathered from every source.
Next, when it's time to
edit and export your content, we're making that even easier by enabling Background Tasks on iPad.
With the incredible
power of Apple silicon, iPad can run long-running
and computationally heavy tasks in the background.
So if you start an extended process,
like an export, and switch to another app,
the task will continue to run.
Background Tasks show up
as Live Activities, so you always know what's running and you always have full control.
And for developers, apps like
Shapr3D and DaVinci Resolve will be able to take advantage
of the same continuous processing with an updated Background Tasks API.
Combined with updates
for controlling your audio input and capturing high-quality content, these improvements will make
creative pros even more effective.
Back to you, Craig.
With accelerated workflows
for working with audio and video, huge improvements to working with files, and the biggest update
to windowing on iPad ever, this release of iPadOS is a game changer.
We couldn't be more excited
for you to try it.
And there's even more that
we didn't have time to cover today, like advanced 3D graphing
capabilities and Math Notes, a new reed pen for
a traditional calligraphy experience, and the Journal app, which comes to iPad
with Apple Pencil support.
So that's iPadOS 26.
With a new design, even more features
powered by Apple Intelligence, and a giant leap forward in productivity, it takes iPad's unique
capabilities even further.
This is the biggest iPadOS release ever.
So those are the updates
to our software platforms with so many helpful features
to enhance your daily activities.
And as you saw
throughout today's presentation, with Apple Intelligence, our platforms are more powerful
and more useful than ever.
We're continuing
to integrate Apple Intelligence across our ecosystem
with so many new features that are right where you need them in the apps you use every day.
Whether you're communicating
across languages with Live Translation, exploring the content
of any app with Visual Intelligence, feeling motivated during
a run with Workout Buddy, accelerating your workflows
with powerful shortcuts, and more, these brand new
Apple Intelligence features continue to elevate
your iPhone, Apple Watch, Apple Vision Pro, Mac,
and iPad with intelligence that is most helpful and relevant for you.
And as you've seen,
in addition to everything in these releases for our users, it's also a huge year for developers.
The Foundation Models framework
allows developers to use our models
and get responses in plain text or as structured Swift data.
App Intents allow developers
to connect their apps' content and capabilities throughout the system, including the new Shortcuts and Visual Intelligence experiences.
And there's much more
to discover in our SDKs, like the latest improvements to Swift, which make it easier than ever
to write code that's safe and efficient.
Or the new APIs in SwiftUI, helping developers build
modern user interfaces across all Apple platforms.
Of course, this year, one of the most important
updates for developers is the new design with Liquid Glass.
It lets developers reimagine
how their apps look and feel, making every user interaction even more intuitive and delightful.
To dive deeper, we have dedicated sessions and opportunities
to engage with Apple engineers and designers over the course this week.
We also have
exciting updates for our tools, like the new Icon Composer app.
Icon Composer helps
developers and designers create layered icons
that look stunning in light, dark, tinted,
and all-clear look, visualizing how light
interacts with Liquid Glass.
And we're bringing more
generative intelligence to Xcode.
Predictive code completion
gets more accurate, using larger context from your code.
And we’ve expanded
our vision for Swift Assist, where developers interact with code
using natural language directly in Xcode.
Developers can now use
a model of their choice, and we have built-in support for the advanced coding models of ChatGPT.
This unique experience flows naturally between the source editor
and the assistant to write code, tests, documentation, iterate on a design,
or fix that stubborn compiler error.
You'll hear all about
these new tools and technologies in the Platforms State of the Union.
And now, back to Tim.
Thank you, Craig.
And thanks to all of our presenters.
What a big day of announcements
for our users and developers.
We continue to advance
each of our platforms with more ways to harness
the power of Apple Intelligence, as well as a beautiful new design, our product experiences become
even more seamless and enjoyable.
We’re excited to see how developers
will bring these updates and this new design language
to their apps.
Our new OS releases will be
available as developer betas today, with a public beta coming next month.
And they will be available
to all users this fall.
Thank you to all of our developers
for continuing to change the world with the apps you create.
And thanks to everyone
for joining us today.
We've got a big week ahead of us.
Let's go have a great WWDC.
Real App Store reviews This one goes out to that very
special somebody in all our lives who develops the apps we love.
♪ Best app I’ve ever set
my sorry eyes upon ♪ ♪ Changed my life (not even joking) ♪ ♪ I would tattoo
the Headspace logo on myself ♪ ♪ This is not an app ♪ ♪ It’s a piece of art ♪ ♪ Started your app a year ago
and I’m almost fluent in Spanish ♪ ♪ Clap hands, clap hands, clap hands ♪ ♪ Emoooojiiiis ♪ ♪ I’ll give you six out of five stars ♪ ♪ Being a human is hard
and this is helpful ♪ ♪ Two thumbs and all toes up ♪ ♪ Even better than sliced bread ♪ ♪ So I’ll give you six out of five stars ♪ ♪ If this doesn’t win best app
of the year, I’ll eat a shoe ♪ ♪ I’ll eat a shoe ♪ ♪ I was glued to this game... like glue ♪ ♪ Saved my marriage ♪ ♪ If I could kiss this app I would ♪ ♪ Oh, purttyyyyy good ♪ ♪ Oh, the deepest functionality
with the most intuitive interface ♪ ♪ I love Hello Kitty ♪ ♪ Meoooooow...owwwwwwwooowwww ♪ ♪ So I’ll give you six out of five stars ♪ ♪ It’s better than people I suppose ♪ ♪ My girlfriend thinks I’m cool
for playing this game ♪ ♪ Apologies for gushing ♪ ♪ Amazing, O.M.GOSH ♪ ♪ I’ll give you six out of five stars ♪ [WOO!] Shot on iPhone. Edited on Mac.